Unknown 0:03
Namaste. This is Dr. David Frawley, Palma Deva. And our next talk discussion will be on Vedic counseling and Vedic Astrology and their relationship. Vedic Astrology is one of the Veda mangas or limbs of the Vedas, and most specifically said to be the eye of the Vedas. Vedas are said to be not only Shruti what is heard, but also Drishti. What is seen in Vedic rishis are said to be serious. So, we must say that the Vedic Astrology or Jyotish as the eye of the Vedas is also the eye of Vedic counseling. And that means that having some vision, guided by Vedic Astrology is essential for Vedic counseling overall in fact, sometimes by Vedic counseling is meant Vedic Astrology. Although astrology is sometimes used in a more predictive model, simply telling us when things are likely to happen or what they might be karmically rather than counseling us as to what they mean and how to relate to them, how to address them and so on. So, the Vedic counseling is Vedic Astrology is a very important connection. One could even say that Vedic Astrology is the most important form are the broadest based form of Vedic counseling. And the reason for that is that Vedic Astrology is the only Vedic discipline that addresses all the goals of life and can do so with sunlight, clarity and precision. This includes the role or the physical and mental health and well being and also the Dharma artha, kama and Moksha which covers all aspects of life.

Unknown 2:25
The Vedic birth chart has different planets, signs, houses, aspects, yogi's, etc. That address these different parts of our lives, our minds, our our life, our relationships, our career, our health and disease, potential children longevity. I won't go into the whole list that is there in our discussion of the Vedic Astrology on different levels. So in that regard, Vedic Astrology is the perhaps the ultimate Vedic counseling tool, because it provides us an overall karmic view of a person, both what they are born with, how it is likely unfold, to unfold during the period of their lives. And what its ultimate result is likely to be. But I also say that with some degree of, I wouldn't say necessarily hesitation but at least qualification and that Vedic Astrology can provide general guidance there is nothing that can pinpoint tell us exactly what to do and what is going to happen. If that was the case, there will be no freedom and there will be no need for us to live our own lives. Everything would be written out as a done deal. Ready. So Vedic Astrology does have its limitations. Its knowledge is general. At the same time, its knowledge requires a great deal of specialization and research to be precise. So there is a difference between Vedic Astrology just as with either VEDA as of a very highly specialized discipline that is pursued at a very advanced level as per vedic astrology in its General usefulness for everyone, both for their own charts and also as a Vedic counseling tool. So Vedic counselors are all going to respect Vedic Astrology some may be Vedic astrologers. If as a Vedic counselor, you are not a Vedic Astrologer or your knowledge of Vedic Astrology is only at a basic level then naturally, you are going to wish to consult with Vedic astrologers particularly for difficult cases, issues of timing and so forth. Now going back to this issue overall, Vedic Astrology the Vedic chart provides also a picture of the subtle body of a person and their psychological tendencies, even more so than their physical condition, and it also addresses outer events in the life or the karma. This takes it beyond I Aveda which is mainly addressing your own personal health and well being potentials. Vedic Astrology can also extend to the environment as a whole to the influences environmentally and your life and also to the influences of karma, Time and events in society and in the world over all. So this gives it value for not only for individual guidance, but also for collective guidance and collective management as well. Now, that being said, we do need some clarity here on Vedic counseling, because many Vedic astrologers don't have any counseling skills, and some are not interested in dialogue or report or communication. They see themselves more as scientists presenting their data, their predictions, their indications, the trends that they see. And then letting the individual person decide what that means or how to carry that on or where to go. with it. Some Vedic astrologers in fact, follow the wishes of their client, which may be to pursue outer aspects of life aspects of ignorance or a Vidya rajas and tamas, how they can accumulate wealth how they can get what they want, how they can achieve their desires, rather than simply at a deeper level, how to live a Vedic life. So Vedic Astrologer in the true sense of the Vedic counselor, will always be promoting Vedic values, dharma start we're gonna deeper teachings of yoga and Vedanta. The Vedic Astrologer will not simply be promoting ego drives and the Vedic Astrologer will also not be appealing to people's desires, fears or expectations, that helping them live a better life. Now, in that regard, the Vedic astrologer who was a good counselor will not necessarily take a highly predictive role to the chart and giving people the impression that everything is already predestined for them. The Vedic astrologer who is a very counselor will address the potentials within the chart, but also help the client understand how to optimize those potentials, manage their energies, and use them wisely, because Vedic Astrology is always presenting probabilities some probabilities are very high, some are medium, some are actually fairly low. So we do not want to from the standpoint of Vedic counseling to disempower people from being responsible, making their own choices and living their own lives. At the same time, we will always be cultivating our usual Vedic values like karmic responsibility and dharmic living. But here the Vedic astrology chart also has many benefits vedic astrology chart can be very helpful for understanding a person's Dharma, including their career potential, it can be very helpful for understanding relationship potential. It can be very helpful for understanding creative and spiritual potential, if it has these different indications over all afflictions to the fourth house and the moon will affect the emotional nature the home the mother and all of that, afflictions to the fifth house and particularly guru Jupiter. will cause trouble relative to judgment, communication, intelligence, creativity, even children or so forth. And we can become much more precise when we bring in the deeper rules and aspects of Vedic Astrology. So what we want to emphasize here is, first of all, that Vedic counselors can definitely benefit by Vedic Astrology. And secondarily that Vedic astrologers should be the counselors and can benefit by knowing what counseling is and can benefit by knowing Vedic values over all. Vedic values, direct us to a life of yoga sadhana and deeper practices. They do not direct us to all our material life, or any sense of fatalism. They encourage us to make greater efforts and to strive harder, not to fulfill ego based wishes, but to fulfill the deeper urges and desires. of the soul. Now in this regard, Vedic Astrology provides extraordinarily and numerous numbers of counseling, tools, ways of examining the different aspects of life, ways of examining the different stages of life, ways of helping us with timing, and even pious or remedial measures that may be simple spiritual things like mantras to the planet may be more exotic rituals. Or yours may involve the use of Yantras may involve special visiting special temples or may in fact, regard the using of gems, but even here, the Vedic counselor should use the methods of Vedic Astrology to further Vedic values and a Vedic life, not simply to cater to the person's need. So even though Vedic Astrology is the eye of the Vedas, it doesn't always provide enough knowledge of the different areas of life if someone has health issues something of I Aveda needs also, to be known, if something if a person wants spiritual development, it's indicated in the chart that also requires some knowledge of the paths of yoga and meditation to guide the person properly. It is not enough to say that they simply have a good potential in the chart with the chart does is overall provide a good understanding of the commas of a person, karmic potential overall, particularly relative to poor the Punia or past life marriage or demerit and the fifth house, I'm not going to go into all the astrological technicalities here, but a Vedic astrologer who is properly trained in Vedic Astrology, but also in yoga and Vedic values, is in one of the best positions to function as a Vedic counselor of all the Vedic disciplines at the same time, the astrologer has a very high level of responsibility that goes along with this, because when we say something is in the chart, we do give people a certain impression of fatalism which can be misleading. So we do ask all Vedic astrologers to be humble, to be tentative. And to understand the chart very deeply can require a number of readings, looking at divisional charts, annual charts, different Dasha systems, cross referencing some can become a very complex discipline for Vedic counselors who may not be Vedic Astrology specialist. They should still know the basics of the Vedic Astrology. So they know what may be entailed relative to dashes or annual charts. The Dasha is or planetary periods. Each one has its own specific counseling issues. If someone's in a very negative Saturn period, there may be a lot of karmic blockages to what a person wants to do. If they are in a turbulent, Rahu period, there can be a lot of outside interference, confusion, psychic eruption, disruption and so forth. If there have been a very positive Jupiter period period with the ninth Lord there may be Grace guidance and all the rest of it. Vedic Astrology is filled with many of these recommendations. So that is why we included along with the foundations of Vedic counseling, I Vedas foundation of the Vedic counseling because it addresses physical and mental health. Vedic Astrology is fundamental to baby counseling, because it is addressing karma over all, and so it is useful at all levels, but a good Vedic Astrologer is still not a substitute for someone who knows through guidance who may be a guru, a teacher, and educator on other levels. It doesn't substitute for knowledge of yoga or Vedanta. And it shouldn't be taken as a means of dominating or controlling people. In fact, often what happens when we look at the Vedic chart, we find potentials that a person has that are very good, but that the person does not know of, or is not activating, because the karmic or temporal circumstances to activate that may not be happening. So in other words, the Vedic Astrologer is not just telling you what happened in the past, and what is likely to happen in the future, but also hidden potentials you can have in different ways of using your energies, turning a Saturn force into a power of detachment, turning a key to force into a power of liberation. So one thing we have done in the courses we've also introduced planetary types, which expand the doshas types of IO Veda and bring in additional considerations for understanding our typologies but the astrology goes much more than that as the ascendant types that show us how we express ourselves out will lead to the world. Moon types, nakshatra types, how we are more internally socially, feeling base psychologically, the sun types relative to our character, and overall different forms of typology, so that we can understand the cosmic influences operative in our lives. So the Vedic counseling can stand as a prime discipline for the Vedic Astrology. And Vedic Astrologer may want to project himself or herself as also, or even primarily a Vedic counselor, because of this ability to address all the different aspects of life, such a Vedic astrologer, using the tools of Vedic counseling, will then also need to learn the yoga vedanta Ayurvedic principles as well. So that he or she can give complete Vedic life guidance. So this is a very important factor to consider and fact and I VEDA we tend to move more into being specialized therapist or tweeting specific diseases at a clinical level. In Vedic Astrology, we can also specialize in different areas of life, but these will also be different areas of life in terms of Vedic counseling as Dharma Artha Kama and Moksha. But we can also function via Vedic Astrology for general life guidance, because nothing more than the Vedic chart gives us an over all view of not only the character, but the life of a person yet to do this requires as would be expected, studying many, many charts, being tentative and combining the ability to read a chart with the special communication skills that we get through the Vedic counseling and through counseling skills overall, and the understanding of Dharma karma and Vedic values. Over all, I'm now on this foundation of Vedic astrological counseling. We can also integrate aspects of Vaastu IR VEDA, yoga, Vedanta and other factors, but at the same time, again, we should remain humble and make sure to verify what we see. It's one thing to see something in charts and another thing to verify that they've actually worked and then that way, in a number of charts, so besides these kinds of practical judgments, there is also the dialog that comes up if someone has a strong Mars, there are positive and negative ways of using Mars energy like there is of Pitta dosha if someone has an afflicted Moon psychologically, and is undergoing some difficult transit, Saturn, Rado, there are ways to work with that difficult Moon energy in a counseling way through mantra through meditation through study through bhakti, yoga, emotion, emotional surrender, and all these whole range of Vedic factors. So we might say that Vedic Astrology is a good diagnostic tool in terms of Vedic counseling, but you also need the tools of Vedic counseling to have the educational methods to make changes. They are after all means knowledge. It says that we are here to grow in knowledge, that's referring to an inner knowledge, which is a knowledge of consciousness and requires a change of consciousness not simply a physical change, a bodily change or even a change of mind. A change of consciousness through the higher wisdom. So Vedic Astrology also has a great scope for abuse, misuse, limited use, or even misleading use that we must be very careful with. The karmic standards for working with the Vedic Astrology are very high. But if we use it in the proper way, it can be a helpful guide diagnostic tool annual charts for a yearly reevaluation of the client, change of dashes or live orientations, professional or question based charts when the client comes in for special or significant issues. Again, the range of tools the rains have typologies through Vedic Astrology are enormous and give us many lat many aspects many ways. Many approaches that we can follow so any Vedic Astrologer needs to know the basics of Vedic Astrology. That doesn't mean that they are capable of giving

Unknown 22:57
Vedic astrological readings, but at least they will have the ability to direct or find out what's happening in the person's life and it's reflection in the chart and an ability to communicate with if necessary, a more professional Vedic Astrologer on the issues that are coming up with the client and maybe reasons why these may be difficult or easy, and why they have various complications over the movement of time. So we recommend that for Vedic counseling, not only is there a basic Ira Vedic analysis of a person, there is also a reading of the Vedic chart, either with the Vedic counselor or as to a Vedic Astrologer recommended by the Vedic counselor, that the Vedic counselor can also consult with as needed. So without Vedic Astrology, we cannot really have an integral Vedic counseling. At the same time if we are restricted merely to astrological data and recommendations, we are not practicing a full Vedic counseling. The Vedic Astrology needs to be a counselor, a teacher, an educator, knows how to communicate establish rapport with the client, and help direct them into life changes as necessary, and as an auspicious times during the life and also the Vedic astrology was a Vedic educator may also need to direct the person towards deeper spiritual teachings, practices and guidance. So overall, Vedic Astrology is a wonderful asset and tool for the Vedic counseling. applied in the right way. It works wonders and helps us understand that the secret of our lives. But here we must also remember that Vedic Astrology doesn't look in the traditional sense at astrological forces as merely mechanical energies that recognizes the divine and sacred elements and powers as reflected through the planets signs, houses and aspects of the chart behind on beyond the mathematical understanding of the chart is an intuitive level of karmic understanding, and an ability to relate to and commune with the Divine Cosmic forces which are the Lords of Karma, which are working through karma. So we must also preserve this sacred essence of the Vedic Astrology as well. So we have introduced in the course, the fundamentals of Vedic Astrology, our counseling methods are valid also helpful. For Vedic Astrology. And also the deeper teachings the yoga vedanta are also extremely crucial for the Vedic Astrology. So we do hope that you appreciate and use Vedic Astrology correctly. It is like an inner eye that can reveal almost all the secrets of life. If we have the inner vision and openness to the deeper cosmic light Shri guru po Namaha reverence to the great teachers, please examine your own chart, see your own counseling and learning potential and learn enough about charts that you can at least have the chart at the client done, and have some meaningful dialogue with a Vedic Astrologer as needed. Namaste

Transcribed by https://otter.ai