Unknown 0:02
Namaste Shri guru Bo Namaha. Our next topic is going to be a general overview of the role and place of yoga as in Vedic Astrology. First of all, we must understand that the term yoga has a different meaning in Vedic Astrology than elsewhere. Most of us are aware of the term yoga relative to spiritual practices, meditation gurus, or even asanas. However, yoga is a very broad Sanskrit term used in a number of contexts with various different meanings. And it is most complex in its usage in Jyotish, or the Vedic Astrology. Yoga refers to a combination a connection, coordination, integration, work, activity, energy patterns, and so forth. So it has meanings that are far beyond what we normally associate with it. And these must be borne in mind in the astrological context. But we would say that yogic thinking is the essence of Vedic Astrology here and that referring to spirituality which could also be used as a definition of Vedic Astrology relative to karma, but as the ability to find patterns associations, and to see the dynamics and read the special forces behind the chart. So here in Jyotish yoga means most specifically a combination a combination of influences that mutually reinforce one another in the chart, or again, essentially reading the pattern of the chart. And so yoga is have a broad based meaning and application, and they can be determined, be determined in various ways, defined in various ways. Yogi's can be defined by sign, house, aspect, association, planetary influence and so forth, almost a bewildering variety. But again, it's a way of reading the energetics of the chart and making some sense of what is going on there. And that is the essence of Vedic Astrology. To look at the chart, sort of like a painting and be able to discern the horizon, the factors, the colors, the shadows, everything else is involved. So we come out with a synthetic judgment and an ability then to grasp a chart overall, and its predominant influences and likely results as well as how these change over the period of time so Yogi's can also consider the planetary periods, trans transits and also the different years of a person's life. And then there is another meaning of yoga is in the Horta context, the horror area astrology, which is relative to the pachanga as a certain Sun Moon Association. We're not discussing that here. So when we look at the chart, what are the most predominant patterns that we see? And these then can be defined in various ways as yoga so one of the simplest ones we brought out in the course and that is reading a chart. Our planetary yogas or yoga is caused by positions of the planets. And the most simple are what we call maha purusha yogas which literally means a yoga for a great person. But in literally refers to a chart in which a certain planetary influence dominance, and this is usually defined by planets in their own sign, or exalted, and in an angle from the ascendant. Some people extend this as to also to angles from the moon and perhaps even to try and so essentially, a planet that strongly placed in its own sign or exhortation and also perhaps reinforced by aspects. For example, Mars in the 10th house in Aries for a cancer ascendant it's an angle it's in the best 10th house and it is also aspect in the ascendant so this gives a very strong Mars energies for the person even can mark the planetary type, Mars type person, even though the Ascendant is the moon. Now such Yoga is not at all uncommon, because the each each major of the five planets has two signs and rules and one sign which is exalted. So that means there's one chance and for that the planet has a has a maha purusha yoga. And then of course, we have the five planets involved for these Yogi's we do not consider the sun or the moon. So the frequency of how often a yoga occurs is also a way of determining how powerful it is, for example, education or yoga, Jupiter at an angle from the moon that's going to happen again, in a third of the charts. So it has to be strong in various ways. So planetary yogas and there's also many special Yogi's here involving the moon, which we call lunar. yogas. Moon is a gregarious planet doesn't like to be alone. So if the moon has no planets with it, or buy it or even aspected to wherever it's located, that's called the Cambridge Ruby. Yoga, and it causes generally loneliness, unhappiness or suffering for the moon. And I don't want why I also want to mention here in the beginning that there are many yogas catalogs of yoga as Yogi's have various names either defined by the factors, the astrological factors that make it up or even by a deity Saraswati yoga for example, you have been learning. So there are many yoga is involving planets by position, and strength of planets in the chart, and then eventually planets by association. But this is just the beginning. So we want to do is just give an overview of the types of yogas that can be found in charts. Now it's interesting to see that yogas can also just involve patterns for example, we have the planets being hemmed in by benefics. Or ballistics, the Shubik artery or papa carretera yoga. You have the moon has Mars on one side and Saturn on the other. Then it suffers from that or even a house if the seventh house has that Mars on one side Saturn on the other that puppet CarterI yoga or malefic influences of separative planets harms the seventh house. Now this may this is yoga doesn't involve any necessary aspects or other positions by house or by sign. So there are many patterns all the planets above the horizon or below the horizon. We've also mentioned that briefly in the course all the planets on the eastern part of the chart or the western part of the chart, planetary conglomerations, or connections of various ways all the planets in one sign all the planets into signs, all the planets in three signs etc. These are also defined as certain types of yoga and have certain patterns. And some of these pattern based yogas can be determined by sign or by house. For example, sign base do this if we have all the planets in fiery signs or most of the planets and fiery signs. This gives certain power to the fire element if we have the dominant planets in movable sides, Cardinal signs as they say in Western astrology that will also give that movable direct and forward energy changeability motivation to the person all the planets and most in fixed signs fix acidity, stability, resistance to change, possibly inertia, dominant planets in dual signs, create yogas for thought imagination, but also for change movement ambivalence volatility and so forth. And so too for house based positions having dominant planets in Angular signs 147 10 powerful motivation change direction achievement, all are most of the planets and trine signs 159 connections with Dharma with abundance and with intelligence all these different things these are also types of Yogi's that can be brought in considering sign qualities house qualities in various ways and the planets located within a very powerful yoga particularly for the mundane astrology is the color sarpa yoga where we have all the planets located between Rahu and Ketu or Ketu and Rahu. General discrimination is that since the nodes move backwards, you will look at the position of the planets backwards from the notes. So if all the planets are, are behind Rahu and Ketu its Rahu predominant colors RP yoga other way it's key to predominant color Sarpy yoga these bring out the energies Rahu Ketu and all the mystery change disturbance agitation spirituality and karmic things that is involved with that these will be discussed a little bit later. But the important thing is to just start to understand and see these different combinations. How space ones what are the dominant angle, what

Unknown 10:45
are the dominant houses triggered in the chart by planetary location and aspects. So this goes beyond simply yoga as to positional matters as well like a person who was dominated by planets in the eighth house or by planets in the 12th house or by planets in six 812 that for example can be good for medicine and healing, but at the same time they can also be disturbing and good health issues for health. orientation of planets in the OPI houses three 610 11 for strength and motivation. So all these combinations can be defined in a certain sense as your guns or they can just be looked at. As part of the patterns of the chart. You're visible from things that are specific to very general you're thinking among the different yogas the among the most important are what we call the Parivartan. A yogas or yoga is involving either an exchange of signs which involves an exchange of houses or a mutual for aspect in terms of change. of signs. Say for example, you have a Virgo ascendant with mercury in the sixth house in Aquarius and Saturn in the first house in Virgo that one six exchange is a yoga that generally can cause health problems. But it can also cause sometimes other first sixth house influences whether it's work or enmity or struggle going along with that. So it's changes between the first and the sixth, the first and the eighth, the first and the 12. These are difficult yogas for health and success and happiness in life just as the position of the moon and these difficult do Stan is six 812 is also there. So whenever there's an exchange of signs, there's also that of course of corresponding exchange of houses depending upon what the particular ascendant may be. If for example, you have a Scorpio ascendant, with the moon debilitated in Scorpio, but you have Mars in the ninth house in cancer, which is also a sign of stability, it loses a lot of its negativity because it's an exchange between the first and the ninth lords. You can also have a positive exchange between the first and the ninth. Lords for the cancer ascendant where you have the Jupiter exalted in cancer and then you can also have the Moon in Pisces in the ninth house. So we got gifts devotion, spirituality, abundance, and so forth. But again, these are one of many factors and we can't judge the chart solely by those alone, but they are very powerful. Any exchange of signs going on creates a certain yoga that is reflected by the nature of the planets in the houses involved. For example, if someone has a Libra ascendant, with the moon with the sun in Virgo in the 12th house, and mercury in Lille, in the 11th house, it's an exchange between the Sun and Mercury, which is a Buddha detail yoga, a good yoga for intelligence, achievement, creativity, and higher consciousness, but it's also an exchange between the 11th and 12th houses. So, it also gives work with foreign countries import export, whether of goods or ideas. It involves the houses as well. So these parivar to the yogi's are also extremely important and must be examined in some detail. Then we will have overall more complex yogic combinations that are defined relative to different aspects of life. For example, we have done a youngest kind of meaning wealth, combinations of planets that give wealth. Sometimes these can be defined very specifically as yoga skin, but also you can just learn to read them in the chart for example in exchange between the second and the 11th Lord says $1 yoga or a combination for wealth and income regardless of the planets involved, but of course stronger if the planets involved you have some abundance overall, like Jupiter and mercury, planets like that. And then you have the opposite that the redrill yogurts are the poverty of this, like it's changed between the first and the 12 I should say the second and the 12 which is actually a little bit like having the Olympics so I know malefic influence on these particular houses. So that combination gives loss. So yoga is for wealth and yoga is for poverty. But sometimes you have both because people who have lots of money can sometimes spend a lot of money so they may go through different phases in life. We mentioned a little bit relative to the ascendant that there are Yogi's for health and disease, like exchanges between the first and the sixth lords, and of course, the positions and then the first and the sixth. Houses and the relative signs involved. But then there are also yogas for positive health, like exchange between the first and the fifth Lord, or the first and the ninth Lord which gives benefic influences that aid in the health so sometimes you have to balance both these combinations for health and combinations for disease. But sometimes the yoke is crossover and back perhaps you've been thinking about that. As we just mentioned it because obviously, they exchanged one and nine is also a spiritual combination, but there's also one for wealth and abundance and good health and prosperity. So sometimes the yogi's can cover more than one domain of life. We also have yoga suffer knowledge, which is the exchange between the first and the fifth. And we also have yoga is involving spirituality. Certain planets in the fifth house, for example, exchange between the fifth and the 12. For foreign education, or even there for spirituality. We read the different influences involved in yoga is for intelligence. For example, if we have mutual aspects between Jupiter, Mercury and Venus, these gifts Saraswathi Yogas are combinations for intelligence. We also have what are called sannyasa yoga yoga is for renunciation, this may be spiritual or it may be loss this may involve a number of planets in the 10th house, or it can also involve the 10th Lord with a number of benefic aspects upon it there are many ways these Yogi's can be looked upon. So in other words, the yogi's can then move into more complex combination. So for business we look at yoga as involving wealth or poverty. For knowledge, spirituality, we look at the education and the spiritual based yoga is for health and disease. We look at the health based yogas and here the moon also becomes very important because she's double our joint Mars, Saturn aspects on the moon tend to negate personal happiness, particularly for women. Because of that, separative effect upon the planets and these Yogi's can also then move in even in two transits. If a person is having both Mars and Saturn influences or Asante city with an aspect of presence of Mars, then that also becomes a yoga for psychological suffering. In fact, the mood in six 812 becomes the basis of a number of negative youngers. Whereas the mood and angles trines becomes the basis for positive yogas. So there are a number of factors that we need to consider. And then we have the whole issue of yoga is based upon house rulership. And we discussed so when we did we go into house rulership kind of by itself, but that is also where we have the issue of Raja Yoga is yoga is that involve a combination of a triangle ruler and a

Unknown 20:29
angular ruler like it's changed between the ninth and 10th lords and these give various types of social political value particularly with 910 but otherwise they can give wealth, power and other gates. And here we also introduce more complexity because when we have discussed this idea of house rulership, there are certain planets that become Raja Yoga karaka for certain Ascendance for example, Venus is going to rule angle and trines from Saturn, Ascendance and Saturn is going to rule angles and trines from Leah from Venus ruled ascendant so these become Raja Yoga planets as a single planet. So sometimes even a single planet can become a yoga karaka. So before this gets too complicated, you can also go to various books like Dr. Charles books on yoga that can listen to various yoga as Dr. RAMAN has a book that lists 300 yogurts. And so sometimes people just try to memorize those, or you have some of the Vedic software that will tell you what are the yogi's found in the chart, but it's really more simple than that, but also more complex or more integral, you need to know how to examine the chart. In other words, what is the position of planets reveal wealth, whether it's dollar yogas, whether it's the condition of the second and 11th houses and their ruler, overall, or the fourth house or property of the fifth house for investment. In other words, once you know the basic principles of what the planets signs and houses mean, and what their connections are by aspect and association, and position in the chart, then you can read the yogas or the energy patterns within the chart and see if the person has a chart in which wealth yoga is prevail. Poverty overs prevail, yoga sir positions for health or disease prevail, or what combinations there are and what periods that are going on. If you're in the period of the 10th floor, then you can examine the possible Raja Yoga influences via the 10th house. If the if you're in a position or have a Dasha of the moon, that is either aspected by Mars and Saturn or in a week play six 812 Then you can also look at the psychological and emotional aspects via the moon. So in other words, yoga in Vedic Astrology is a way of thinking that begins with the basic energetics of the chart, including the planet, the sign, the houses, the ascendant the aspects, the overall orientations there, and then it can go into specific positions of planets like maha purusha Yoders, or it can go into specific patterns that arise through exchanges of signs or Parivartan. Mutual aspects and see how planetary influences can reinforce or negate one another. So we might say yogic thinking in the sense of drawing connections and integration is the essence of the Vedic Astrology. And at the same time, we have to remember that when we look at a chart, we have to focus on certain areas. For example, a chart may be good for wealth but not for intelligence, or a chart may be good for knowledge spirituality, but not for health. So just because you have good yoga in one area, doesn't necessarily mean that all the other Yogi's will be negated. But even here, there are rules for example, Jupiter in an angle or Trine negates a lot of bad Yogi's and strengthens the positive yoga is within the chart. So the yoga is don't negate the basic positions or indications in the chart. They just give us various ways of putting taking putting them together and coordinating them in various ways. So when we look at the position of wealth we look at the Donna yoga is in the chart. When we look at the position of learning education. We look at the Jana yoga so yoga is for knowledge in the chart, you know, fifth house ninth house. For psychological diseases, we may look at youngest for the moon, or yoga is involving the fourth house and the fourth chord to see the positive and negative influences there. So this is just a kind of general introduction of the term yoga, and more details of course will come out but please remember its importance. And don't be overwhelmed by its complexity. And it's a matter of making simple correlations. You don't need to memorize all the possible traditional yogas. Again, some software can show you that but you need to be able to kind of judge them and sense them and kind of get a sense of how they overall adapt to the chart. And then you need to look at the chart from various angles for the different aspects of life. To see what kind of yoga or combinations are created relative to the different domains of life on Shri guru Bo Namaha. May the ratios of Jyotish give you their knowledge and the planetary Devatas crown to the transcendence of karma Hurrian

Transcribed by https://otter.ai