Unknown 0:04
Namaste Shri guru po Namaha. This talk relative to this particular lesson is about the financial and business aspects of Vedic Astrology. Well, we can call the domain of Lakshmi, both for the birth chart and in the mundane astrology or timing, astrology overall. We all need Lakshmi abundance in our lives, inwardly and outwardly. It need not be excessive, and we shouldn't abuse it. We need for integrity. And our use of our resources and finances, but we have to give them their place. And also, a good astrologer should be able to see these main factors in the chart, because this is part of the ordinary chart interpretation for all of us. Know these astrological combinations for wealth, abundance and careers.

Unknown 1:47
However, it is hard to be specific, the mundane financial astrology.

Unknown 1:56
For example, using Vedic Astrology for the timing of investments, buying a property, or more specifically working with the stock market is very difficult. Our general rule is that to do a specialty in Vedic Astrology you must have also some background in that specialty.

Unknown 2:18
In other words, a medical astrologer should have some background in medicine, particularly if Aveda financial astrologer similarly should have some background in finances and probably be working in the business world and have some experience in the field.

Unknown 2:42
We are introducing the center the course. Please We want the course to address the whole of life and to be a help to astrologers. And this issue is very commonly used and sought after by those who look into astrology.

Unknown 3:04
Few curious things I've learned even if a person has a very good astrology for wealth.

Unknown 3:12
They still may suffer during collective periods of market crashes or bad years. And it's interesting that many people who have a lot of wealth also have high expenses.

Unknown 3:28
So indications for high expenses are not necessarily against wealth, if they are also indications of high income, of course the income needs to be better than the expenses.

Unknown 3:45
So like all fields, it is very complex, and has many sides their wealth giving planets like Jupiter, even Venus gives financial gains through art and specialities. In fact, Venus can indicate money, financial gains through mercury, which relates to communication and commerce. In fact, all planets can have some potential for financial gain mercury as we say, through the mind, Mars through work and effort, Venus through feminine energies, Jupiter through expensive ventures, Saturn through fixed assets and property Rahu through media ventures Ketu through calculation computers, mathematical and research ventures, son through the personal influences and learn through working with the public that side is there as part of the sides of all the planets.

Unknown 4:55
However, most important are the houses and their lords.

Unknown 5:03
For example, the Lord and house to the second house and his Lord are very important because they show livelihood the second house shows the gain through our personal efforts, or the work that we do with our own efforts. Traditionally our own hands our own speech, but it extends beyond that. Like if the second Lord is strong. In its own house, the second house, then it can be good for a person to run their own business.

Unknown 5:38
If the second Lord is affected, they're running one's own business may be difficult and financial losses may be there.

Unknown 5:47
The 11th house and its lord give good income gains, particularly through friends Associates, and relative to greater goals in life working with the public, and it also shows general income overall, relative to the planets that may aspected or be talented there. The ninth house and it's lord, give good luck, favor of government or established authorities gains through education, particularly higher education ability to win the lottery or other special gifts and games. Almost some karmic good fortune that kind of can even fall out of the sky.

Unknown 6:38
The fifth house and it's lowered gifts gains speculation like stocks and bonds, or through giving advice, good advice, counseling and teaching. And the fifth house shows good karmas overall and what they bring to us and often this can be material and financial as well as spiritual game.

Unknown 7:05
The fourth house and its lord give us gains through property and houses, homes, real estate, and fixed assets but also through vehicles and related factors.

Unknown 7:22
The 10th house and its lord is there for social recognition status precedes prestige career success and wealth often comes with this in a secondary way. Although there are instances where it does not just as there are houses of abundance and material gain. There are also houses that connect to poverty. The 12th house and its lord gives high expenses and causes loss that means planets in the 12th house can give us financial loss as well as other forms of loss and renunciation.

Unknown 8:12
But the 6th and its Lord gives loss through enmity, meaning enemies, legal difficulties and litigation and also possibly disease and injury.

Unknown 8:28
The eighth house and its lord are most concerned with obstacles, oppression, alienation fall from grace, even criminal activity, although curiously, on the positive side, the eighth house and its lord gives corporate gains and also family inheritance. But these two can be mixed up with other obstacles and legal issues and trouble with the government and related factors.

Unknown 9:08
So in other words, the douche does also affect financial matters, six, eight and 12. The seventh house is also another 10th house, and so planets there also have career gains and potentials. So these are important and what is most important overall is the yoga is for wealth. The dollar yoga is and the yoga is for poverty, the redraw yogas and these involved, the location of the planets, the aspects, the exchange of signs or the Parivartan is, etc.

Unknown 9:54
So many classical yoga is for wealth, and we can just learn the logic involved. If the second Lord is in the 11th house and the 11th floor it is in the second house. That is a yoga for a great financial gain through one's personal work, efforts, livelihood or career in exchange between the second and the ninth Lords similarly gives unexpected wealth and gains through one's work activity exchanges between the ninth and the 11th or connections between the ninth and the 11th also show income through with unusual gains.

Unknown 10:41
connections via the fourth and the fifth can show gains through property investment. Speculation. exchanges between the second and the fifth show the ability to make financial gains through counseling, advice, speech and related issues. connection between the 10th and the 11th like the 10th board and the 11th show career success that brings in financial gain. And you can put together any other of the combinations for wealth giving houses two or even more. If these houses are, are given power in the chart if they have more planets in them. More aspects to them, then the financial gain is more likely. Similarly, there yogas for poverty or the retro yogas in the chart that have the opposite effect. And often involve some of the opposite planets.

Unknown 11:53
For example, the second Lord in the 12th House of loss, and if it goes the other way, the 12th Lord in the second house of livelihood, makes for poverty or makes the ability to make money difficult to eight houses, exchanges or influences also cause problems or also cause obstructions, litigation, government issues relative to finances, connections between the second and the sixth 1000s. Also there will increase relative to livelihood, factors of litigation, disease and injury 1112 exchanges show gain and loss.

Unknown 12:44
And it's interesting we have some Ascendance like the Pisces ascendant in which Saturn rules both the 11th and the 12th houses. So there's also that mixture of gain and loss or connections between the eighth and the 10th. Houses and their lords give blockages of career or falls from career. The same thing to some extent happens when the 10th Lord is located in the 12th house and the 12th house is located and its ruler in the 10th house now yet there is also some additional complications here. 12 houses also foreign countries foreign exchanges, so someone who has a lot of 12th House influences can better make money and gain financially through foreign affairs or import export, that sort of thing. So many combinations exists there, and many other special positions in the chart.

Unknown 13:46
For example, Rahu in the eighth causes a lot of variability relative to finances. Saturn in the 10th causes a fall from career they can also have financial gains and Rahu periods we may over speculate and lose and Ketu periods we may under speculate and lose. So these factors have to all be borne in mind. But it's important to recognize that we can work with all these financial issues via the chart. And as we verify the financial history of the person, we can better see the planetary factors involved and what they may more likely bring for the future. So the financial astrology is an important factor in the Vedic Astrology, the domain of Lakshmi, the domain of arta that we must honor and remedial measures like gems can improve this capacity. In fact, in India, you often see businessmen or women with Jupiter fingers or Jupiter stones on the ring finger the Jupiter finger or other special planetary gems to help them with their wealth giving capacity. They also may do planetary rituals havens and pujas for a gain of wealth. They may also look at the pachanga for favorable days, for transits, or for actions and new ventures. They may also employ a Vedic Astrologer and they may have other special rituals done to perpetuate any to redraw your logos or poverty yogas in the chart, and they may also examine the charts of their family members and business associates to see what is the best financial basis that they may have. And in addition, they may do regular worship of Lakshmi, Vishnu, Ganesha, and other deities that help so the Vedic Astrology also provides remedial measures to aid in career and income as well as general prognostication about career and income. Career is more specialized, and that was has to be examined whether Tip two different types of career, financial basis is easier to see. But when there's a lot of done a yoga or yoga is for wealth, and the person will likely take upon some business activity, markets, real estate, accounting and so many other related ventures relating to all aspects of wealth, luxury or abundance. So you can do a full study of astrology and the full practice of self astrology relative to wealth, abundance, business ventures, and even career for that there are other resources that you can examine Shri guru po Namaha. reference to the great gurus. reference to the great deities that give us abundance. May Sri Lakshmi give you all the abundance that you need in life, to pursue all the domains of life, leading to the highest self realization. So it's not just a question of making income, or having wealth but of how we use that wealth and income. Money is an occult power, even property is an occult power. And we must use that to raise a higher consciousness in the world and in ourselves. Otherwise this abundance of Lakshmi turns into bad karma. While if we use it properly, it can be good karma for ourselves and others and also aid in our spiritual practice in India, a lot of the vices or the wealth giving class lead fairly pure lives relative to rituals and diet for this purpose and do a lot of pilgrimage sadhana mantra, employ various Vedic priest and connect with various gurus and Deva Tez for their grace and help in all aspects of life. Hurry home today.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai