Unknown 0:02
Namaste Shri guru Bill Namaha. This is Dr. David Frawley vomit Devi Shastri and our upcoming talk and discussion is an overall introduction to the i Vedic Astrology course. So the first thing I want to do is to put you in touch with the basis of the course and a little bit about its background and history. I've been a student of yoga and Vedic knowledge now for a good 50 years. And my introduction and study of Jyotish or Vedic Astrology goes back almost that long, I think until at least about 1972 When I began studying the subject along with yoga, Vedanta, and also the Vedic philosophies, mantras, and even aspects of the higher Veda and I had long had an interest in astrology, and astronomy from various angles. And this resulted in an effort to study and also to teach the Vedic astrology in the west at a time at which very few people knew anything about it. So I had some public classes and other things. And I've decided then to create a kind of what was then called a correspondence course now with distance learning course on the Vedic Astrology, the first version of which I introduced in 1985 and its purpose was basically there to teach the essentials and background of Vedic Astrology to Western students and people today. This course continued to develop. And in 1990, I brought out my first book on Vedic Astrology called Astrology of the series, which was the second book published in the west on vedic astrology in English, the first being that of James bra. And it was also really the first book published in the west by a publisher browse book was self published in that regard. And so it was a very new book in the field. So what I did is I incorporated some of the material from the course into the book, and also expanded the book through the course and this course then was to teach people the basics of Vedic Astrology, planets, signs, houses, aspects, how to read a chart, divisional charts, all the different factors of the Vedic Astrology. Aspects nakshatras as well as the philosophical and spiritual background. And this is how the course stayed with some additions and development. For up until around 2005. In 1992, we began the first major Vedic Astrology conferences in the West. And this began in 1993, with the founding of the American Council of Vedic Astrology, of which I was one of the initial main founders and the first president for the 10 years from 1993 to 2003. With my friend and colleague, Dennis hardest as the executive vice president, we also included them in various conferences and talks and studies and programs in the Vedic Astrology, as well as the use of this course and the books and all of that. And that came also closely in touch with Dr. Beebe. Raman, and the Indian Council of astrological Sciences at this time, starting in 1992. I became a special student of Dr. Robin organized a number of programs and talks for me in India and also initiated me in special Vedic astrological mantras and practices. They remain close to him over the many years, up until his passing away in the late 1990s. So this course, was my way of helping students throughout the world. Learn the Vedic Astrology and connect with it. Because of my special connections with iron VEDA, which have many other books and courses, I then wrote the book I Vedic Astrology, starting in 2005, which expanded the medical astrology dimension of the course and gave the course a two full orientation. One teaching the fundamentals of Jyotish Vedic Astrology and to teaching the fundamentals of Ayurvedic astrology and Vedic medical, astrology. There are a number of programs that teach Vedic Astrology and fundamentals but they're very few that teach the fundamentals of IR VEDA along with them. So this means this Astrology of the series course which originally called it or later became, the Vedic Astrology course, is the oldest distance learning course in Vedic astrology in the West, in an English idiom, and the proceeds, the books and courses that have come in later, but it has also continued to develop and change and be augmented over time. Now we have new online versions of the course. And we continue to add new material and other aspects other knowledge to it. Now, our approach to Vedic Astrology is, you might say spiritual and therapeutic not simply predictive, predictive model of Vedic Astrology can be useful, but life is not so easily predicted. What we do find is that it's easy to see trends in Vedic Astrology particularly through the birth chart and the doshas, but timing of specific events is not so easy, and is not always what we are really seeking to do. So in our model, the true role of a Vedic Astrologer is of a karmic counselor, a Vedic counselor, and someone who can help guide us in our lives through the unfoldment of our karma, as our karmic potentials are shown in the birth chart, and it's unfoldment over time, through the doshas, the planetary periods, the Eco chakras and transits and also the partial pol or the annual chart. So this requires to be a Vedic astrological counselor that you follow a Vedic life that you have inside and that you do certain mantras and meditations and that you understand and under the corpus of Vedic knowledge and native astrology, specifically, we have emphasized the I Vedic aspect. I Aveda being the Vedic healing system for body and mind extending into yoga, which is the Vedic path of Self Realization. So, we have also brought into the books and the courses, how to determine dosha types. They are very constitutional types of water, Pitta and Kapha through the birth chart, basic disease potentials are unfoldment of disease and health over time, and not only physical health, but also mental health psychological indicators in the chart and how they affect us in various ways. And along with this, also the world of the pious with a Vedic astrological treatment or therapy measures, in which we devote a great deal of

Unknown 8:53
time and information to the use of gems, although we must say gems cannot be used mechanically. They also need to be empowered with mantras, and right intentions in order to work best. And we've also outlined, particularly in the second part of the course, these empires, and even more specifically, the use of mantras. And deities relative to that have but besides the basic information, this is a very detailed advanced in some ways, and in depth comprehensive course. And so in the third part of the course, it goes into much depth into the nakshatras which have not been very well understood in the Western world. And it brings in special love my Vedic research, like the Shakti is that in the children's fruits of the MC chakra is special knowledge that I brought back through my study of the Vedas that you do not find originally in other books, or even in the older classics of Jyotisha go all the way back to the Titan area Brambilla, a very ancient Vedic texts where I happen to discover that that material in going over that and then we also look into factors like the Ashinoko BARDA, and other special ways of chart interpretation. The course also has a special workbook, apart from the three volumes, that is more specifically at a practical level of examining charts, looking at charts, combinations and various specialty aspects like referred services that come out

Unknown 10:36
through

Unknown 10:38
deeper chart examination. At the same time, going back to our idea of Vedic Astrology, as counseling, we don't believe there is any mechanical system for interpreting the mechanical methods, as I like to say, are useful only 1/3. They help us give you a starting point, whether it is Shambala whether it is the CUDA system or any other system anyone else has devised, because one, we are not mechanical, and to life is not mechanical, we are not machines, so we are not totally predictable. So Vedic astrologer, is someone who helps knows the energies like an iron beta, we have water Pitta and Kapha doshas which become nine Doshi types relative to the nine planets that we discuss. And so from our counseling model, we can help guide the client as to how to understand the energies in their lives. energies as indicated by planets signs houses. Live newer ascendant moon sign nakshatras are background and factors have elements of Gunas and doshas. So that is our broader view. And it's also a view that brings you into a different relationship with the client. One of my big complaints about vedic astrology in the west and even to some extent in India is it's tied too much to the one reading model. You go to Vedic astrology in one reading, which lasts anywhere from one to two hours. You're supposed to get everything possible from them, so you don't need to go back to them. Again, if you need to understand more about Vedic Astrology, you end up going to another Vedic Astrologer for the same basic reading. That is the misuse or a limited use of astrology. The Vedic Astrologer as a counselor like an ayurvedic doctor, you don't just go to them once similarly to any guide counselor in life. So a to Vedic Astrologer can have and should have a long term consultancy relationships with individuals, clients of various types, including families and even groups and businesses. And the horizon for working with a person is not just the birth chart, it's also the divisional chart nakshatras special domains of life we have Dharma Artha Kama Moksha and the road to health for body and mind we can't necessarily address these all instead, those change of doshas yearly charts, special transit factors. So if you understand Vedic Astrology, then you will also or should be also able to motivate or inspire your client to have a long term relationship with you in terms of this life guidance, and at the same time, we always teach an integral approach to Vedic knowledge in the course it's mainly I Aveda and Vedic Astrology. But to some extent, I Aveda yoga and Vedic Astrology and I Aveda and all the other yogic values such as we discuss in a new book and course relative to the Vedic counseling. So in that context, the Vedic Astrologer can address any domain of life, whether it is work and finances, the physical or psychological health, relationship, career, spirituality, not that the Astrology can can necessarily show everything or guide the person in all aspects, but they can at least present the foundational forces. So we always tell people, the Vedic Astrology birth chart is your most important document in life is even more important than your DNA. It is your karmic DNA, your some scars, but we'd have to learn how to read that properly. Just as if you were doing person cannot read their genetic code. You need a special type of scientist to do that. So to the Vedic Astrologer should be trained to read that karmic code and at the same time, not reduce karma to fate or destiny, but rather to help the person understand the calm so that they can manage it and transcend it whether it's through experiencing it through right actions through spiritual practices or through remedial measures. So we believe that the Vedic Astrology can help us optimize our karma and does it help us escape our karma? And we shouldn't use it to avoid our karma or to avoid pain. We need to hold to our karmic responsibility in life. So the model of the Vedic Astrology we're putting forth is more comprehensive than what most Vedic Astrology teaches. And it is also more intuitive and more spiritual. We do believe you need to know the background in terms of planets, signs, houses, and aspects but you cannot just read a chart through a computer or a compilation of all your bills. You also know how to need to know how to have a report and communicate directly with your client and a one to one basis. It's not just what you see in the chart that matters, but how you are able to share that and how you're able to get the client to understand that instrument. So in other words, your goal as a teacher, is to help establish people in a basic way of life and help to help them understand their daily clock, their karmic clock, which is the movement of their life, from birth to death, according to the cycles of karma at various different levels. So we don't emphasize

Unknown 17:16
being too old I call technique heavy.

Unknown 17:20
We know and number of astrologers today who knows so many techniques, but where they can communicate very well with clients or find out what is really going on in the person's life. techniques are tools of Access. Vedic astrology has many of them. But often simple teachings and words of wisdom are more transformative. And here we also need to understand the limitations of what we are doing. In a one to two hour Vedic Astrology reading. We can employ every possible subtle techniques. It's always important to make sure the birth time is correct or rectified, even in ordinary birth times. It is not guaranteed to us that the Navantia would live now the ascendant and Obama is correct, or the ascendant and other divisional charts so we can just simply jump into various predictions and ascertain moments based upon data that we do not have. And we do need to help the person understand the astrological energetics of their lives, just as people need to understand the doshic energetics of their lives, because I Aveda and Vedic Astrology are about self healing and self guidance and connecting us to our inner truth. The outer teacher and therapist is there to guide us within not to substitute for our own knowing. So putting people in touch with an understanding of their own karma and a taking of karmic responsibility for their own lives. So in Vedic Astrology, there are many computations and calculations. Fortunately, we have this wonderful software systems today, so that we no longer have to do these by hand. And I began doing Vedic Astrology back in the 70s. These didn't exist and we had to calculate generally we extrapolated from the Western Chart positions by taking off the iron option, but even the Western Chart positions, we had to calculate by hand with various ephemeris is and algorithms and things like that. So we were more intimately involved with that. But also more limited as to the data we had. But even this data remember there is a living being the sole or parotia real person behind that so the data like their clothes and like their futures or how they comb their hair and other things, is indicating something deeper, so we use the techniques and the computations to look deeper. At the same time. We don't look at the Vedic Astrologer is simply a psychic who simply looks at a person's face and begins making predictions. That's such a such people do exist again they are psychics but they are not necessarily Vedic astrologers. So Vedic Astrologer has an intuitive knowledge, but should always be able to connect them to actual factors within the chart. And the difficulty in reading the chart is of course that planetary influences exist at various levels and at various times and in various ways. For example, the fourth house is the mother. fourth house is the home the fourth house is the vehicle. The fourth house is the heart. The fourth house is the emotional nature. How do you read these different factors? There are of course, different plan there are different planetary significant matters. There are different aspects and different rulers that relate to that, but much of the art of Vedic Astrology is getting into that right level of examination. And in that regard, we usually look at the indications of the charts of the of the planet signs and houses is first of all, from level the physical body. Second, secondly, from the level of psychology and third, from spirituality, and fourth from the outer life. For example, the outer life the Fifth house is the house of children. It's also then the house of Punia, or past life positive karma. It's also the house of booty or higher intelligence, including creative intelligence, and also teaching writing, counseling, speculation, advice and so forth. So we have to learn how to blend all these factors together. At the same time. We don't learn this all at once in interaction with the client, more and more comes out. So the more often we give readings to the same person, the more often we study a particular chart, the more that we learned. So Vedic Astrology is an art and a science and intuitive as well as a predictive or computation based system requires a lot of studying, you should try to look at as many charts as you can. That's going to require some years for everything to unfold. But we have tried to in this course, give you the depth and the references so that you do have a good foundation, both for understanding Vedic Astrology overall, and also for the specifics of the IO Vedic Astrology and the pious and the remedial measures, and also some of these deeper aspects of these nakshatras. So please be patient. Study these factors, in depth argument your core study with books of charts of famous people, or you can even find these on the internet. Make sure you have good software for calculating charts begin to look at the astrological influences present every day. We do touch upon mundane or world astrology and the indications that are happening in different countries based upon their Vedic Astrological New Year's charts and so forth. So in other words, gradually immerse yourself in Vedic Astrology bit by bit. Be patient. Take your time. Recognize it takes time recognize there are many sides to a person's life, many levels and layers of our own being from the physical to the sensory, emotional, spiritual, and all the rest of it, and that there are always mysteries out there. And with Vedic Astrology, we want to help people unfold the deeper and higher potentials, not to simply reveal to them their difficulties, because even though we have many difficulties in life, we also have the inner potential to overcome all difficulties. And in the end, we must recommend and recognize that our true self our atma or pollution is beyond time space of karma is the witness of that. So we should not subordinate people to the chart, but help them use the chart in a creative and intelligent way to maximize their life potentials. So that in a few words is an overview of what the Course presents the philosophy behind it. A little bit of my own background and what we hope to inspire you to do. Vedic astrology has such tremendous depths that can be used on so many different levels. It is one of the ideal and best professions I believe, could follow, but it must be followed along with deep spirituality. Otherwise, if we use the spiritual and occult forces for simply mundane and so to help people fulfill their worldly desires, they're often sometimes negative karmic ramifications that come back upon us and our own spiritual unfoldment may be in some way reduced. So please respect this knowledge. Please understand its poor and make sure to honor the great gurus. Make sure to honor the planetary deities. Make sure to follow a Vedic life and to look upon your practices Karma Yoga, in terms of action and service. Bhakti yoga is devotion to the cosmic powers of consciousness and Yana yoga as a way of self knowledge and your practice of Vedic Astrology will always be fruitful and helpful both for you and others. And for the inner self, the inner being of all a namaste Shreeka Rubio Namaha

Transcribed by https://otter.ai