Unknown 0:07
Namaste Shri guru Bo Namaha. The subject of this talk is the natural and temporal status of planets. And this whole idea of house rulership. It is one of the most distinctive, important and significant aspects of Vedic Astrology. For chart interpretation, prediction and understanding the unfoldment of a person's life over all and of the chart influences overall. But it's also complex, multi level and requires a certain degree of synthesis on one hand, and on the other hand, it requires focusing on specific factors for examining different domains of life. So as you know, planets have a natural status as benefics or malefics, which are largely expansive or contractive in their influence, or promoting a factor as a benefit or negating a factor as a monolithic It is not simply good and bad or right and wrong or good and evil. It is a question of energies, but the results are significant and the Olympics cause difficulties in our domains of life benefits, promote them, but we don't necessarily want to promote all domains of life that can be out in nature, nor do we necessarily want to reject any capacity to withdraw, negate or transcend. So please do about it. Please bear that in mind. Then the planets have their temporal status, which refers to the houses they rule relative to the particular ascendant in the particular chart. So it's temporal or temporary, changing quickly over time, and it's based upon the ascendant so each ascendant has its own different game or rules, as it were, for interpreting planets, signs, houses, and their relationships, including these issues of natural and temporal rule. And here we run into complications because planets, these the part from the sun and the moon, Rule two houses, one house may be good and what else may be bad in the general sense, or one house or both houses may be good or bad or have positive or negative values. So we look at the temporal status relative to the ascendant and the temporal status tends to reflect the natural friendship and enmity over all the two camps. Mercury, Venus and Saturn as one camp of friends and Sun Moon, Mars, Jupiter as another camp of friends and these two then two camps become inimical to each other. But there are also specific indications relative to houses. Some houses like trines 159, are regarded as benefic overall because they promote positive things. In life, self as the first house intelligence as the fifth house and creativity ninth house Dharma and spirituality and positive karma angles are places of power 147 10 And of course Doosh Donna's six 812 are places of difficulty, and some of the other planets fall in the middle for various reasons. So each ascendant then has to be dealt with separately relative to temporal status. And that is why for examining a chart or for purposes of chart rectification, we always have to make sure that we have the correct descendant because that is what depends on how good or bad or how expansive or contractive a particular planet may be. And in this regard, the Lord of the ascendant except in the cases of the sun and the moon, also rules, two houses and these houses may also have positive or negative connotations that are borne in mind. So the general rule is that planets will give results relative to both the houses that they rule, so it depends upon the position of the planet but then also is qualified by the position of that particular house. For Aries ascendant Mars rules the first and the eighth houses. The disposition of Mars overall will be the same for both in the chart, but the specific indications of Mars per house it may aspect one or not the other. And the other influences on the house a person may have a strong first house but an eighth house by other planetary aspects. Or associations. So Mars has to be interpreted in both ways. And during its particular planetary period or Dasha, it can give the results of both of these houses that also depends upon the planetary period. The the property, the secondary period that is involved. For example, Mars of its own period, may be done in the sub period of Saturn, which may have afflictions and then qualify things that way. So that is why we have this very interesting table of temporal disposition itself, the planet, showing the houses planets rule relative to the ascendance, both of them, and indications that whether these are auspicious or inauspicious. That means been epic or lithic or even neutral. In fact, all plans to some extent, mixed in their influences, depending upon the various factors that they are promoting or preventing and so this week, this combination of how house rulership relative to the Ascendant is very important, but it also does consider the natural status to some degree. For example, Mercury for Aries ascendant becomes a generally an auspicious planet, because it rules to difficult houses the third and the sixth fix is a douche Donna. Third is also a secondary douche Donna or difficult house as the eighth from the eighth house so that mercury is not going to give good things generally for the area's ascendant. On the other hand, Jupiter is ruling the auspicious ninth house and is a friend of Mars and natural benevolent so does generally very well. On the other hand, it doesn't rule the 12th house and so some 12th House indications not only spirituality in the positive sense, but working with foreign groups, or even loss can still come up under Jupiter. So even though we mark a planet is auspicious, it may be still tainted in some degree because no planet is totally good or bad and again, must be qualified relative to its position in the chart and afflicted Jupiter for areas will not give the same results as a well placed Jupiter. And then the other rule is that planets will give good results for the houses that they rule so even Mercury for the area's ascendant, if it is strong can help the third house or brothers and sisters, friends all of that. And if we consider that, then we cannot just blanketly call a planet in auspicious what we mean it is generally an auspicious relative to the ascendant and the ruler of the ascendant. So these qualifications have to be borne in mind. Then there are other factors. Venus, for example, is generally inimical to Mars. And so for Aries ascendant it is in a special set rules, two houses, and

Unknown 9:25
these overall are not necessarily bad houses two and seven, but they also have other qualifications. For example, two and seven are also what are called maraka houses. They call it cause obstruction, and even health issues. Monica actually means down we'll talk about them separately, but this also gives them some issues and in addition, we have certain rules, and one of the rules is when a prolific rules and angle that tends to become suspicious. And when a ballistic rules that angle it tends to become more auspicious. So overall, that is the issue. And then we have to consider the how these two houses that are planet rules relate to one another. For example, Jupiter for Aries, ruling nine and 12 both have spiritual correlations, all so as we go down through these Ascendance, we see each ascendant has its strength, and also its weaknesses that need to be borne in mind. And each planet has certain positive things it can do relative to the houses, it rules, and certain negative things and this is above and beyond. Its position in the chart, which must be considered as well. So for example for Taurus ascendant Jupiter becomes quite an auspicious because it will the eighth and 11th is a difficult house 11th Sixth from six also has some difficulties and Jupiter is an enemy of Venus, the Lord of the ascendant and then Saturn some of these descendants have what is called a Raja Yoga planet, a planet that rules both and angle in the Trine nine and 10 being the best so Saturn becomes a very positive planet for the Taurus Ascendant is also a friend of Venus overall. That doesn't mean Saturn as a natural malefic cannot cause some trouble and the Saturn nature of slowness, consolidation, hard work, etc. Must be borne in mind as well. But Saturn and becomes much more auspicious for Taurus ascendant than Jupiter. But even Jupiter as a natural benefit and an angle or a Trine can give some help to the Taurus ascendant, although it may not always give the best results. On the other hand, ruling the 11th house it can give wealth if it is well placed in the chart. So this in auspicious and auspicious is again all relative to the chart as a whole and not necessarily relative to each of the houses that the planet rules. So this gives different combinations for every ascendant for Gemini, Mars becomes a very ill auspicious planet, because it rules to houses the sixth and 11th The sixth from the sixth that are kind of Strong, Violent, inimical, disease causing and so forth and it's a natural enemy of mercury overall. So its position in the chart is problematical. For the Gemini ascendant there's no Raja Yoga for Saturn. In fact, it means a good house, the best house and the worst the eighth and the ninth, so much like the nature of the Gemini person. The Gemini Ascendant is ambivalent and dual in terms of its planetary influences, which can weaken it. Overall combinations of Mercury and Venus are good but it doesn't have overall the strength and even going back to areas we see it also doesn't have a Raja Yoga planet. Sun, Moon can be considered or sometimes as one planet for understanding them, because they are related. So it's fourth and fifth house rulers together they create some sort of Raja Yoga and overall are friendly relative to the chart. So we have to start bringing in this finer degree of analysis for cancer ascendant Mars becomes the yoga karaka and it's a friend of the ascendant overall. So even though Mars and the Moon are very different planets is you know, hot and cold or aggressive and gentle. Mars becomes very strong for cancers and then can give them a lot of public and career and sometimes even spiritual gain. Whereas the planet like Saturn, being a natural malefic and ruling the difficult eighth house, cause can cause a lot of difficulties, but even here, the Saturn can give spiritual benefits for the person or aid in some degree of detachment. So again, we can look at these and simply a black and white and another rule, we won't discuss that so much here. But for Ascendance, there's a certain rulership of angles. So in cancer, we call it Kendra the party dosha Venus has that so Venus becomes particularly in auspicious for cancer ascendant or potentially causing difficulties, even though there is this long term, association or connection of the Moon and Venus in terms of qualities, like the sun and Mars Leo Ascendant has the powerful Mars so to the karaka again, Sun and Moon sun and Mars are friends. Mercury even though it is an auspicious to the chart as a whole rules to 111 which are houses of wealth so it gives a lot of wealth and Donna yoga, but it can cause some health problems and communication problems, things like that. And we see the other rules of the camps generally speaking for these particular planets for the sun, there's one camp that Sunscape Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, are friendly and connected. Mercury, Venus and Saturn. The other camp are unfriendly and conflicting. But again, at the deeper level of our analysis, we have to look at each house separately, to find out what it is that is going on in the person's life. So a strongly placed Venus for Leo Ascendant can be helpful relative to the 10th house, although it can cause some degree of vanity or pride or attachment. So see the layers of influences that we're beginning to see. A Virgo Ascendant is also an ascendant that doesn't have easy or good planetary placements overall for several reasons. Mars again becomes a very inimical, ruling third, and eighth houses to Skarner eighth and third is the eighth from the ace. Jupiter ruling angles of a nificantly angles causes trouble to angles here particularly, and so Jupiter coffin causes trouble for the person. For example, I remember a chart of a woman who had Jupiter rising in Virgo, and within Jupiter Dasha started some astrology so Jupiter aspects the fifth and the seventh. So there'll be marriage and children and other astrologers said, No, you can join a party, the ocean will block that. So what happened the woman under the Jupiter period. The relationship with the marriage did not work. She had some care of his children, but in the end that also doesn't work. So relative to each ascendant, we look at what are the most positive and negative planet Venus for Virgo is generally good Virgo ascendant even though Venus is debilitated and Virgo because of its connection with the ninth house Saturn again is ambivalent ruling fifth and sixth houses good house about house but it's generally a friend with mercury. And we have another rule that if a planet rules the 12th house, it gains a certain neutrality, which means that it reflects the planets that it is with. And in this case, of course, Mercury and the sun are often together. So for the Virgo ascendant the sun can reflect the influences of mercury and gain a certain strength moon here again in auspicious but ruler The 11th is also good for income and recognition via Libra. Libra has specific influences, because of various factors first, it has the strong Saturn as the yoga karaka and then Venus and rest the first house ruler Mercury is the ninth house ruler and even moving this the 10th House ruler can all be involved in Raja Yoga. So this influence makes Libra strong chart for success and influence and all the rest and then we look at the planets accordingly. Venus as the we also have this issue here for Libra ascendant Sun planets ruling both the first and the eighth. It also suggests that

Unknown 19:23
even that The Venus energy can be tainted with eighth house influences and certain emotional sexual factors that go with that. So there's an interpretation factor here, just as Mars for Aries rules the first and the eighth and they have the aggression of the eighth house, as well as the power of the first house. So understanding both the houses helps us understand the nature of the ascendant and the planetary influences. Jupiter is not good for the Libra ascendant but it gives some benefits as a natural benefit particularly if it is well placed. Mercury has the edge of being the 12 House ruler. I once had a friend, he was going into his Mercury Maha Dasha and I think he was in his about 60 years old for a Libra ascendant and he was thinking about the very good results. He actually did not live more than a couple of years. Reason for that is Mercury was also the 12 House ruler. His chart overall was weak, and he had Mars and Ketu prominently placed relative to Mercury. So here even we must consider how the aspects impact the planets and the houses that they rule. Again for Libra. As for Taurus, Mars has that suspicious Merica nature, but as the seventh Lord it we have to look at it as good for relationship. For example, it's generally good for Planet aspects its own sign, and the case of Mars in the seventh house. It still can cause some trouble with the seventh house because of its Martian nature but can strengthen it in other ways. Moon is 10th Lord is sometimes regarded as an auspicious for the chart overall, in terms of maybe health issues, psychological issues, but it does boost the 10th house. Sun is generally regarded as in auspicious for Libra, being an enemy of Venus, but it does give 11th House benefits. So again, here, we need to consider things carefully. But if the Libra Venus is combusts, you're too close to the sun. Then we have additional complications. Scorpio, also like Aries has the Sun and Moon ruling an angle and a Trine here the best the 10th and the knight. So exchanges between the sun and the moon are these yoga characters and give very good results. Mars with its aggression can also be negative towards its own health and well being ruling the first and the sixth but it's overall good. Mercury again this inimical relationship with Mercury and Mars causing difficulties relative to their respective Ascendance. But working week has some benefits relative to income or even eighth house as inheritance we have to look at broader issues. Jupiter ruling second and fifth is ruling the house of speech and knowledge. So it has a lot of knowledge based and sometimes spiritually based on income based association for Scorpio ascendant based upon house rulership, Venus with the enmity with Mars but again, it's a relationship and pleasure based planet which also has complications, then Saturn naturally it's inimical nature to Mars causes issues involved. Sagittarius is very interesting because for Sagittarius the sun becomes the auspicious ruler of the ninth house, but moon becomes a bit of an auspicious as ruling the eighth and so doesn't always give good results. Even though Jupiter and the moon are overall friends. Mars has good results spiritually often with the fifth and 12 but can sometimes push the person to laws. Mercury also has this problem the same with Jupiter. In Mercury rule descendents of ruling angles, and so it doesn't always give good results. But it is of course as the 10th ruler and really the seventh as the 10th from the 10th as important aspects relative to career and gain for example, the position of Jupiter rule the sentence and Sagittarius ascendant a particular as a teacher or a guru. Jupiter itself ruling the first and fourth has its own yoga karaka aspects. Their angle in a Trine first house can be considered both as an angle and a Trine. The becoming quite inimical. For Sagittarius ascendant ruling difficult sixth and 11th houses and Sagittarius ascendant people suffering from indulgence over expansion, and almost the seeking of pleasure that's where Jupiter and Venus can come together and where Venus can corrupt Jupiter and again overall the inimical nature of Saturn relative to Jupiter, Capricorn. Also, as a Saturn rule, the Senate has the Venus as a yoga karaka and very auspicious and it has its friend. Mercury is a bit ambivalent ruling sixth and ninth, but one rule we have is we usually give the mother to a corner house, more strength relative to house rulership. And is that is a Virgo the ninth house, it tends to help Capricorn more Mars and nickel but yet Mars ruling fourth and 11 can be good for a property gains and income. Moon Mars I shouldn't say Moon Saturn conflicts here seventh ruler and sun Saturn complex your eighth ruler, they don't always give good results. Aquarius is also ruled by Saturn and has similar house orientations with some variations of Venus again as the great yoga karaka. Mercury is ambivalent but here it's a better house eight goes to Virgo. So it has spiritual benefits but it can have some health issues. For Capricorn Saturn rules the first and the second so it is good for wealth and income for Aquarius. It rules the first and 12 and so it's not so good for wealth and income but is good for spirituality or working with foreign countries. Mars for Aquarius causes a lot of conflict and difficulty but it is important for the 10th house. Moon is a health issue for Aquarius ascendant moon rising for example, as the sixth Lord is not so good. And the sun as a relationship factor and an enemy of Saturn has some ballistic type influences. So there are also complications there. And then finally Pisces. Pisces has a Jupiter energy but it seldom does good and here we see why. The Jupiter itself is well placed as the first and 10th Ruler a kind of yoga car at the end can benefit the child quite a bit. Mars is good for income and gain. Moon is also very good as the fifth ruler and knowledge creativity sun is not so good. And Mercury, Venus and Saturn cause the usual problems but here we also have to consider the nature of the ascendant Pisces being a watery diffusive mutable sign can have some difficulties, and so it doesn't have the strength of expression as Sagittarius so even the nature of the ascendant has to be considered. So if we go into this list, we don't just make it black and white. Everything auspicious, always good everything in a suspicious Bell effect in terms of tempo, disposition always bad, but having the overall influence on the chart, and then we have to synthesize the factors of natural and temporal influences relative to position in the chart. If Jupiter is a good planet for a chart, but it's debilitated it may not give good results or they may be hampered, retrograde can turn things within or slow things with slow things down combust can complicate things a bit. But we have to always look at the planets not simply according to their natural status, but the houses that they are ruling and to some extent they also project the influences of the houses of the planets located in those signs and houses. If Saturn is located in Sagittarius, then Jupiter may throw out a bit of a Saturnian influence because of that. So you see the bit of complexity here. But you also see the bit of specificity here because then we can go from the planet to its natural status, it's temporal status to the particular house to the influence in the house the and also the, the we also have to remember the significance of the house like the sun in the first house, or Jupiter in the

Unknown 29:19
second house. Mars in the third house generals significant matters. All these factors we don't mention here but they do come up at other points in the course. So see the complexity is also a matter of specificity, and can help us become more clear as to what is going on not only for the person but also for the relations like judging the fourth house, or the or the mother or the fifth house via children influences there, and how natural and temporal status affect those as well. So these are some good overall factors to consider. I don't want to overwhelm you with the complexity, but to go a step at a time from the natural status in the chart to the temporal status to the combination and then to relationships, associations, aspects yogas and then ultimately also to factors of timing through dashes, and transits. schrager, Rubio Namaha. Hurry

Transcribed by https://otter.ai