Unknown 0:03
Namaste Shri guru bule Namaha. What we are going to do in this talk is discuss our approach to Vedic Astrology and these upcoming lessons, what our strategy is and what we are aiming to accomplish. As we have mentioned, the course has a two fold purpose, one to teach you the basics, the foundation the fundamentals of Vedic Astrology, particularly for those who have little knowledge in that field to this point. Secondly, to teach you the specifics of the medical either Vedic and yogic astrology as the main means of applicate applying your astrological knowledge. The third level, we do have another goal, which is teaching you the meaning of nakshatras muhurta timing issues, which is part three of the course that addresses that additional factor in this first part of the course. We are addressing the fundamentals of Vedic Astrology. And we have already begun with one lesson which is an overall very good summary of the fundamentals of Vedic Astrology as per a special long article I did for Hinduism today. A few years ago, and that we also read it some years later, that you have seen. Now we continue with three foundation lessons are based upon the astrology of the Cirrus book. They consist of two things the course material itself, and readings from the book because the book does teach all these fundamental factors and these the basic factors of planets signs, houses, aspects, yogas dashes or planetary periods transits even touching on to other factors of remedial measures, divisional charts, and more specific things. So these are kind of like the nuts and bolts of Vedic Astrology. On top of that, we do have our workbook or part four, that we use as supplementary reading, and particularly the first lesson of that, which teaches you the difference of reading the north and south Indian charts. We will actually use the South Indian chart more and what we do, but you need to learn that as well. And once that is done, the other part of one part one considers the more advanced factors so we have planetary types explaining the planets in great detail. We have detail into house rulership.

Unknown 3:03
And there are indications in the workbook we also have a study of the 12 Ascendance helping with the sign types and other specific factors will come in.

Unknown 3:17
So the first level of Vedic Astrology is to learn the basics even at a non interpretive level. When you look at a chart you should be able to determine five planetary aspects by sight. You should be able to note the main configurations in the chart, which planets rule which houses indications of particular signs and planets over all. And once you know these mechanics, then you can move on to the interpretive factors. And the interpretive factors are determining what are the dominant factors within the chart, because we all have the same planets, the same signs, the same houses, but the dominant factors come into play and sometimes that's harder to determine. Sometimes we need to discuss that with a person to see which of these prime planetary energies we see is really dominating them or affecting them over all. So once this mechanics is is understood, then you can go into details of chart interpretation. We have examined that more in the workbook or this part four of the course. But we also indicated here in there in the readings that it's important that you have your Vedic software, and you will look at your charts, other charts, daily charts first, just understanding again, the mechanics and then gradually working in the interpretations of astrology. Vedic Astrology seems extraordinarily complex and in some ways, it is partly because of the modern software allows so many calculations to be done.

Unknown 5:04
Actually, we can learn a lot about a person through the basic birth chart and its primary indications. And for most readings, which don't go much more than an hour. We really don't have time to move much beyond that. Yet, with the Vedic software today, we can look into subtle divisional charts, sub sub periods, we can calculate annual charts, we can use a different Dasha systems and the point I like to raise here don't let technique over away your knowledge. get the basics down first before you go into details and the important thing is to be able to address the issues involved in one question I raised this if a subtle technique is not offering you some knowledge that you don't already know in the chart, then it is not useful. And if a subtle technique depends upon the birth chart being accurate to one minute, or five minutes or less than that type of subtle technique cannot be guaranteed. That's why a sentence for example, in divisional charts become questionable at a certain point. So actually, we started a very simple level of the meaning of the nine planets which occur on different levels, their interrelationship their typology, and that we address in terms of how smoother ship in terms of exaltation, durability, in terms of qualities, elements and characteristics that go with the particular planets. So there are a kind of mathematical technical details, but each planet also has its characteristic signature. And we must remember that along with the usual planets, we put a lot of emphasis on the lunar nodes of Rahu Ketu as marking a prime axis in the chart, and special points of transformation or obstruction. We judge the five main planets Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, these are the visible planets in the night sky. Mercury and Venus never get very far from the sun so they are usually the stars we see after sunset and before sunrise. Although Mercury is hard to see Venus is very common. And very bright. And the darker night sky we have Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. And these become most important because they have special planetary aspects and can affect more things in the chart. So these three planets often become more determinative, and they characteristically relate to the IRB doshas mercury, Saturn as water dosha, Jupiter as kapha, dosha and Mars as Pitta dosha. Sun and Moon are very important Moon is very important isn't ascendant in itself. The Ascendant we could say represents the earth in the chart and as the prime orientation factor for reading the chart Moon reads the psychology more sun reads are more your inner character but also your prana cell ego and often we will then look at these three Ascendance, the ascendant and then the moon as the ascendant car calculating planetary positions from there, and then the Sun as the ascendant, calculating positions from there, or what we call the Sudarshan Chakra we superimpose the positions of these three planetary Ascendance on each other sun, moon and ascendant overall, and see what the weight of aspects and positions and influences of the planets are. Jupiter and Saturn are also very important as the slower moving and larger planets and as the main factors of timing and spirituality, Jupiter in the expansive mode and Saturn in the contractive mode. So when we look at a chart and the planets in it, we have a lot of things to consider in terms of their aspects and their relationships. Relationships, also called yogas, which may also involve change and exchange of signs. You know, Mars in Leo and the sun in Aries exchanging signs for example, or can involve just proximity relationships, or planets on either side of a particular planet. malefics on either side of a benefic planet will constricted benefics on either side. Of the planet will protect it. We look at these general patterns overall involved. We look at the nature of the signs in which the planets are located, whether they're friendly or unfriendly or similar, or different in terms of elements and qualities. We look at the houses where the planets are located. And this is very important. The signs show the general qualities and characteristics the houses show the specific domains of life and houses have different levels of meaning. For example, fourth house is the mother but it is also the emotional mind that is also property home and it can even be vehicles so we can interpret it at the different levels. And for that we have to have a subtlety of interpretation and the combination of indications. Fifth house relates to children, but also to creative intelligence, also to body or higher discernment, past life, karma and other factors. So again, we have to look at these houses with multiple levels of meaning, and also examine the factors relative to them. The signs the planets that rule the signs, planets located in the house planets. Significant in the house and so forth. Then we have aspects between planets drishti these, which are not as complex as those of Western astrology, but do have their place and importance. And we have the big subject of yogas which are just a combination of influences, which may be positioned to the planet by sign like a planet in its own sign at an angle from the ascendant or the moon, like Mars and Aries in the 10th house with cancer rising as a maha purusha yoga or a determinative yoga almost for that particular planetary types, but there are many Yogas are distributions of planetary energies, sign or quality combinations, house rulership and related factors. And then under house rulership. We have this more complicated factor which we'll go into in some detail later on that each house each planet reflects the nature of the houses that it rules, some houses being good or bad. So for example, a planet like Saturn, which is a first rate malefic by nature, by House rulership for Venus rule descendants becomes a Raja Yoga karaka ruling an angle and a time. So we play this need this deeper understanding of natural versus temporal status. Natural being benefic or monolithic by nature. And then house rulership temporal status being depending upon the particular ascendant involved we will discuss all of that. So in other words, there is a blending and in our interpretation that we must do, and we have general rules have been terrific and the lithic was sounds like good and bad overall. But these are general rules of expansive and contractive. And it depends on what you're expanding and what you're contracting. So ballistics can be good in certain houses like three 611, where we need contracting, focused and even competitive energy for example, when effects can be bad in six, eight and 12 houses, because they're expanding an energy that is difficult energy relating to disease, difficulty or loss. So there is a lot of apparent judgmental statements that we find in the Vedic Astrology, but in terms of actual application, we are much more liberal, we might say, are much more nuanced in our interpretation, starting off with the nature of the planet and also the nature of the particular sign involved, and the different aspect of a person's life and then we must understand that in Vedic Astrology, the purpose is not just to glorify good fortune. You know, it's nice if a chart is good for wealth, or enjoyment or property or success or fame.

Unknown 14:39
But it's also true that it's more important for a chart to give spiritual knowledge for which when uncIe ation loss, other negative factors can be helpful in the long run, and for which discernment and detachment is also required. Now, the birth chart, of course, is a very curious thing because the birth chart is the map of a person's life. You can sort of say it's almost like a map of the earth. And then it's sort of like looking at the birth chart is like if a person has a map of the earth then wanting to know where to turn in a particular town or where to go in a particular day. That's obviously something that you cannot see from the map of the Earth as a whole. You have to have a way of fine tuning and looking more closely. So the purpose of the planetary periods is to help us understand timing matters, with the general periods of six to 20 years and the 120 year cycle, and then the sub periods of that and even sub sub periods. We can't go much below that, because our birth times are probably not going to be accurate enough for it. But on top of that, we have the transits. The current positions of the planets that we can judge relative to the planetary periods as well as relative to the birth chart. There is also the very complex matter the annual chart, we haven't taken it up in detail in this course, but at a foundation level, you can interpret it much like the birth chart, at a deeper level there it has its own special rules and applications. So there are factors of timing, as well as the timing, the client comes in or sets up their meeting that also reflects transit wise or muhurta. timing wise that what is going well is going to be happening with them, as well as daily influences as we'll discuss under muhurta and the pachanga. So timing is very important and that is why the questions of the client are very important, much like the chief complaint of a patient who comes in a general physical examination may not be what they're looking for. So besides the general examination of the chart, we have specific examinations relative to domains of life. Finances, relationship, spirituality, timing issues, travel issues, so many things going on. So these fundamentals of Vedic Astrology don't get contradicted.

Unknown 17:38
But they do get adjusted as we look more deeply in the chart. So look at the chart like a painting, you have to kind of move into it by degree. Look at learning Vedic Astrology is something that requires repetition. That's why we go back and forth over the same factors in different or more detailed ways. We give you a basic synopsis of Vedic Astrology. Then we give you more detail about the factors involved in these three particular foundation lessons. Then we expand them in additional lessons and workbook and looking at charts and 12 Ascendance and we keep going back to the basics because it really takes a lot to understand the planets. Each planet has its own wisdom. For example, Mars has a certain wisdom, of effort, determination, work, discernment, purification, tapas, asceticism, Mars is the son of lord Shiva, that way, so we can just take a blind judgmental view Mars is a malefic and a bad planet. Even with signs signs have their different characteristics. For example, Pisces like Sagittarius is the sign of Jupiter, but we seldom see Pisces very successive successful outwardly in life. They have a more emotional, volatile, dreamy, intuitive, artistic character that often remains more added at a subtle or astral level and doesn't manifest so well. In the outer, practical and mundane world. And as we mentioned about houses, they have different dimensions. For example, if you see a bunch of planets in the eighth house, you might immediately consider this is a bad person, they will have suffering they will have losses they may go to prison, they may have negative notoriety and all of that. But eighth house is also a house that gives inheritance it's also a house that allows people to work with organizations, industries, research science, medicine, institutions, even corporate world banking, things like that. So it has another meaning there that also has spiritual indications relative to energetic practices. Meditation, tantra subtle techniques, even met subtle technologies and all the rest of it. So we have to get a sense of the different dimensions of each house, each side each planet and see which are applying for a person and actually more than one will usually be applying for a person and we may then want to shift them from you might say the negative aspect of the planetary energy to the positive aspect. For example, you would think Jupiter and Venus are good together. But together they often create luxury indulgence, even addictions of various sorts, even particularly in watery signs, but even in other places. So just because planets are an effect, you can have too much of a good thing. That's also an issue involved. Then we have divisional charts, which gives us additional factors beyond the basic birth chart. We use the Navamsa chart primarily for that sometimes we also use the director in a general way. But here, we can go to additional levels of fine tuning of meaning, seeing how planets fare in both charts, and the generally the Navamsa chart shows the future of where you're going and the birth chart shows what you have all along the journey. So there's a whole other world of the divisional charts and this is also an advanced factor of calculation and examination. Because most of the time, you will see one client for an hour hour and a half and you want them to know the fundamentals. That is why we recommend multiple readings so that one can go deeper into the chart also rectification may be required. So in these few lessons, you're going to be learning the language of Vedic Astrology, the energetics and the mechanics. Make sure to do some readings in the book as well and familiarize yourself with that. We also begin with the cosmological, philosophical, and karmic background of Vedic Astrology, which naturally reflects a different worldview a different view of self and a different understanding of consciousness than what we have in science or in our commercial society. Today, so Vedic Astrology is already taking us into occult and spiritual worlds, and teaching us esoteric laws, truths and higher dharmas. So we need to have the mindset, the receptivity and the inner openness to these cosmic forces and to the greater cosmic intelligence in order to appreciate Vedic Astrology, and Vedic astrology has its own sense of timing. In fact, astrology is all about timing. Most of us live in this abstract, artificial mechanical time created by clocks and social necessities of work and travel, and all these other things. There is an additional biological clock in our bodies connected to the aging process.

Unknown 23:58
This is also connected to your Vedic chart. There is also time in nature the days the month, the seasons, which also connect to broader cosmic forces and collected influences, like the yugas that we mentioned at the beginning of this book, astrology of the spheres, but the broader point is to make sure to help your client enter into these cosmic considerations of time, planetary influences, and how planetary influence for example, daily cycles are based upon the sun monthly cycles are based upon the moon. But there are other planetary cycles Jupiter 12 years and so forth, that have their effect and give us different potentials to work with. Astrology is just not about predicting mundane events for a person when you will get married. When your child will be born, when you will take up this particular job that is really very outer. It's also about helping us understand our potentials. If we understand that there's a negative cosmic energy operating at a certain point, we can take compensation for it or if a positive is entered energy is there we need to use it. So these points of opportunity or points of caution are also there in Vedic Astrology, as well as remedial measures to help us adjust ourselves to planetary influences like rituals, mantras and gemstones that we focus on in more detail later on in the course. So the astrology is a sacred science. The planetary influences are sacred forces, but they're powerful cosmic energies. They're not just simply human or even transcendent forces like electricity or like nuclear forces. They have their energies and they require a certain skill and understanding and working with. So take these next three lessons as a broad foundational overview, and also recognize the additional detail that will be added to them as you move on. Try to develop a personal relationship with the planets and the signs. personal relationship can also be based upon the study of your own birth chart, or those of your friends and family. These are forces that you need to learn to know and work with and turn learn to work with some like artistic factors. For example, the painter has to know the different colors and how they work together and how they change in combination. How they're how they can be blended, or how they can be contrasted as well. Astrology is as much an art as it is a science because the human being and time in the universe are not simply mechanical, black and white factors but blending of energies, such as we see in the gradual change of the seasons or the day or the night and related factors. I would also urge you to take time, go out at night and look at the sky. Try to learn the 12 signs of the zodiac in the sky. Try to be able to identify the planets in the sky and meditate upon them. And above all, it's easy to observe the moon be aware of and observe the moon, particularly in the sky. Learn the path of the Zodiac, which is where the signs are located. But also have a sense of the path of the Milky Way and move into astrological timing through the doshas and transits of your own chart, but also through the transits going on in the sky and though it's seasonal changes, Equinox Solstice is, eclipses enter the world and the universe of Vedic Astrology. And then these factors will have more meaning to us the planets are deities, the planets of sacred living forces, we can just look upon them as mathematical factors to use. Vedic Astrology is a sacred art there are mathematical factors and techniques and methods. But there is also a blending of subtle energies like artistic configurations, occult configurations, yogic energies, and the more we train our inner sensitivity, and our intuitive nature, the more we will benefit from the astrology and the more we will be able to help others and finally learn to play with these things planet signs, houses, it's like a game in a way, but you know, it's also a game of meaning a game of karma and through working with these things. It helps us memorize charts memorize planetary qualities. Memorize degrees of exaltation, and the ability, memorize the exact place of each sign in the zodiac, the exact place of each nakshatra and the Zodiac, and over time, consider their relationships in your own mind, contemplate them don't just simply look at it as something to be told to you from the book. Also, look at it as a language and intuitive resource that you can put together and expand and develop your own astrological identity and your own astrological vision. The key points you'd like to look at in a chart, special relationships with certain signs or planets.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai