Unknown 0:00
Since from this zoom that I want to address from the zoom and just remember Tanisha is the deity behind all technology and can save you from your technological worries. So, this is the question how does one receive the blessings and strengthen and chakra if you are not in India and are not able to visit the temple dedicated to honoring that next chakra there's a bit of a misinterpretation here are temples dedicated to an up shot truss where poojas and rituals can aid in the pious for being at shelters. But that's not the only way you can deal with them. Again, you can also tune into the nakshatra. David, as we've mentioned here, or we have this great rule that helps us out a lot. You have something called an Easter Davida that's the deity that you worship. So you can always use your HD pavatt. Whenever that is unnecessary. For example, a lot of device numbers will change to Vishnu Sahasranama regardless of whatever the astrological issue is, those boggling Days in May do Lolita as a husband on things like that. So many empires can be done either relative to the deities connected to the nakshatras or relative to your fish, the De Vita and depending upon the nakshatra they're a little more specific things that can be done. Whether it is certain types of sod and mantras, or gems or analysis, st applications, there's always something that one can do. And then also one can do things relative to the planets involved. This is not to downplay the importance of certain neck sharp drop temples, but we always have to do what is possible. And one thing I like to say that if we have a little bit if we can do something for ourselves, that is good. We shouldn't always look at somebody else to do something for us. Now there is that again that issue for example, and medicine. Obviously there are conditions you can treat yourself. On the other hand, our basic health and well being depends upon how we live in Act every day, not upon what somebody does to us. So we should remember that principle. What kind the second question, what kind of sadhana would you recommend for someone with planets in the last part of taster, first part of moolah? Well first of all, it depends upon which those which what planets there are involved in this situation. Because Jupiter there were even Mars in the last pada last degree is little more problematical for planets in the last pada last pada is basically relative to the moon. And the most basic answer is very simple. If a plan is weak there you strengthen the planner. And that can be done with various planetary names, planetary mantras, planetary rituals, gems under certain circumstance I want to talk to you about gems in the astrology or Vedic Astrology class later, but we mainly recommend gems for charts where there's a health affliction and a psychological affliction rather pitting the relative to the ascendant or the moon. I'm not so much into recommending gems that tell somebody will by yourself and they get a nice Yellow Sapphire and your income level. Because the problem is the is that if you increase somebody's desire you they can get what they want. But then the Roger Rose was so short term you've done in the favor, but long term, you may not. Do you use the third question? Do you use true Chitra ion unshot only? Well, this is the tricky thing because I don't know what you mean. By true Chandra Chitra is not very far from the ecliptic, so it doesn't vary too much. Whether you use the older polar longitude or the newer modern scientific, but mainly I would use the Chitra ionantha. At the same time we have to have a little bit of understanding and flexibility as to what the influences are going on. And then we also have to do is to do some degree of rectification which is harder to hear out maybe we'll talk about this today too. But you know, we the computers can mislead us. You can calculate sub 100 dashes going down three or four levels. But if your birth time is off by one minute they'll be off by two weeks. Or say somebody is coming to you with a chart and their Ascendant is six degrees and 30 minutes of any particular sign or step in terms of I should say six degrees and six degrees in 30 minutes. The point of transition for the Navamsha would be 640 So within one minute, if they're off by one minute, then their chart would get a bunch of data. So what we do is unless we know the chart very well a person, we don't use the Navantia like now we use the Rashi lagna and then a bombshell and that was always done in the Sudarshan system, because they would always in the traditional charts, they would put the Navantia planets in the corner of the Rashi in which they were located in so you have to work with a chart for a while before you have before you really no four can verify at the same time. You can help a person a lot without being able to be pinpoint specific because that creates a lot of time. But I always tell people, you can predict a lot by your by your hindsight you can then find the combination that did it. But predicting by foresight is difficult, because even say in Monday's stories, it's horrible. Because there's so many charts, there's so many countries and you're dealing with specific dates and you're dealing with charts that are already powerful. So it's a fine tuning matter. And then finally, there's a question. Does the science chart have a place as well as the side aerial chart in the traditional Vedic system? How do solstices and equinoxes fit into the side aerial Zodiac? Well, first of all, the Vedic system had two types of years. One type of year is the pachanga year the solar lunar based upon observation, the other was the tropical year it was a seasonal year. And that was just done by the seasonal dates which is what you have in the tropical zodiac. Now, the solstice is and the zodiac. The solstice and equinox are very important in the Vedic Astrology and ancient Vedic times, they began the set of rituals on the winter solstice, and they perform them through the summer solstice, and then they found them in the reverse back to the Winter Solstice. So they're very important. There's also a one of the shot brothers relates to them, but they weren't used for determining signs. For example, we have Vedic texts that say, okay, equinoxes and critical. They knew they didn't identify the equinox and the constellation. Then you had another time where they said summer solstice has moved back into a Salacia from Maya. So they knew the difference between the two. And you know, the difference between the two, if you're looking at the sky, because if you're using the, the actual full moon, then it varies so I think as I mentioned a little bit earlier today, the tropical zodiac is later in the history of ideas than the Siberian zodiac, because it depends upon either a sundial, which they ended does not based upon observation. And when we knit and when the stars were named, when they named the stars of the two stars of Gemini, it wasn't, it wasn't this idea It wasn't meant as a tropical position. The stars positions are not tropical. Tropical is the relationship between the Earth and the Sun. I'm not saying you can find any value in the tropical zodiac, but you can say that when the Taurus was the vernal equinox they called it Aries and then now today when Pisces is the vernal equinox, the calling it Aries obviously Aries was made into into that at a later stage of ideas, because the ancient people were looking at the stars they weren't looking to an almanac was I say using the sundial. Okay, so those are the Zoom questions. And now we can have some of your questions.

Unknown 10:07
Thank you, Dr. Farley. This was wonderful. I have a question about my moon nakshatra for the bedroom. Can you go a little bit more than two? Okay,

Unknown 10:16
what is your question?

Unknown 10:17
It's from what I understand. It's like one foot is in Earth and one foot is out there in the in the ether. What I understand about this nakshatra is that it's like one foot is on earth and one foot is in the ether. So you're like No,

Unknown 10:35
not necessarily the one the there's a certain focus at a deeper level. Okay. That you have to connect to.

Unknown 10:47
And then I've read that there's like this obsession with death with it and I'm not understand don't

Unknown 10:52
think there's an obsession, an obsession of death with this, I don't know. In fact, if we go into that there's two of the several things we haven't learned yet. Besides what we've taught here about the David tests, each nakshatra has a Shakti, a certain movement, it also gives the fruit of certain actions or desires. I put that up on the on the website, for example, the Shakti for poor of the bedroom, is actually it's a very spiritualizing nakshatra. And, as they say, it it gives the inner fire to awaken the person and it has the I give support and it also is concerned with the well being of all it has in fact, we often see this I see this even in some people involved in ministerial work, and there's a certain compassion there. At the same time, there needs to be a certain steadiness of effort. There's often certain healing energies that the person is also involved with. What is your profession?

Unknown 12:15
I am a registered nurse, although I left bedside nursing and seminary Vedic practitioner, okay,

Unknown 12:21
because nurses this is something that we have often seen to even Pisces, you know, the load of

Unknown 12:26
admission. I am three degrees and 20 minutes of Pisces.

Unknown 12:31
We see more of that in fact, we've got one of my iron Vedic Dr. Friends, Sunil Joshi, you know him. His book on puncher calm. I believe he was a Libra rising with the moon. In Pisces.

Unknown 12:44
Okay. Yeah, that's me too.

Unknown 12:51
As a quick question, you spoke to Mercury being debilitated in a watery sign. And I was curious if it's in retrograde if that does change. Things,

Unknown 13:02
rip through holders retrograde change stability or how this retrograde effect the planet changed debilitation. Okay. Well, first of all, retrograde isn't internalizing energy. And, and the, the problem I should say there's a complication with a Mercury and Venus Okay. In that because they're inside the Earth's orbit. They can be retrograde moving away from the sun or they can be retrograde moving towards.

Unknown 14:03
Mercury and Venus okay. And because they're inside the Earth's orbit, they can be retrograde moving away from the sun or they can be retrograde moving towards the sun. I have to say I'm born with both Jupiter and Mercury Retrograde but Mercury is functioning Okay. Mercury Retrograde that also depends on the sign and is that it isn't in front of the sun or is it behind the sun?

Unknown 14:37
So for me, it's been my devotion. It's in Pisces birthday.

Unknown 14:41
Nobody was debilitated. And what I'm talking about where is it positioned relative to the sun? I don't know. Because you have to see if it's moving away from the sun. And then it's gaining strength. Got it. But essentially, Mercury is retrograde pretty often. And next part of its changeability. And it's not necessarily bad, but for some certain practical decisions. It can bring in some outer complications. But for a more deeper mind is not necessarily a problem for that. Thank you.

Unknown 15:20
I have a question about my used to lead IQ. So I'm Western astrologers. I might say this world by everybody is totally things. 29 degrees, 40 minutes and 4940. Yes. Oh, so does that mean? We're raised to be Aries ago? It used to be Aries. It was really nice. It Aries

Unknown 15:45
you have to understand. Remember the ascendant change is one degree of reform minutes approximately. So that means that if your birth time is off by a few minutes, you could be Aries ascendant. So it's a question of rectification is what it is. Sure my birth certificate is accurate. Well, birth certificates are not necessarily accurate and we always have to rectify a position like that. And it's usually not so difficult between Pisces and Aries because the signs are so different water sign fire sign. So there we have to have certain factual issues whether it's children or marriage or occupation and then see how they relate to these houses involved. And then we make a decision from there. And fact. No, as I say, we you have to be you have to recognize that you cannot guarantee any birth certificate is accurate to more than 10 minutes, even if it's filling a specific number. And then you need to know the changing points for example. Navantia powder only lasts for 30 minutes average. So that means a five minute different six minute difference who will throw out most of these. So So we kind of learned we go into the chart by degree by steps and try to verify what is going on there in order and then once we have that then we made the May rectify we'll just accept the ascendant usually getting back to the Ascendant is not so difficult. Getting back to the degree. If somebody has a chart that's down to the second it scares me. Because how do you calculate that and how do you rectify? How do you rectify that? It's not easy. So you would have to check that out first. Okay,

Unknown 17:33
so let's assume it's true. What does that mean?

Unknown 17:38
Sunday. Oh,

Unknown 17:39
so it would just be Aries?

Unknown 17:40
No, you said the Ascendant is to know the Moon Moon, or the moon isn't 2941 Is it 29 4940 Then that is not that is the most likely to be true, because the moon only moves to 13 degrees a day. Now what is the ascendant?

Unknown 18:01
The Ascendant? It's a Sagittarius.

Unknown 18:08
Two degrees Capricorn mustering?

Unknown 18:11
No 10 degrees Capricorn Western. Yeah.

Unknown 18:13
So let's it's going to be Sagittarius. Yeah. Sagittarius is like today, basically basically from Sagittarius would be the end of the fourth house. It's also ruled by Jupiter. That's not a douche stone, not a difficult house. Moon is the glory and also the and also relative to the position that has where's the sun, you have to look at the whole chart. How many? How bright is that moon? Right. Okay,

Unknown 18:49
I was born four days from a full moon.

Unknown 18:51
Okay, so that gives a little more sense to Pisces as a whole. So you know, it's not the most unstable axis for the for the is the Virgo Pisces axis. So because they're both volatile Earth and volatile, so you have to be there may be some issues there because they would say health wise perhaps something sugar metabolism, diabetes, things like that. But in terms of other factors we would have to see otherwise the moon likes the fourth house and isn't a sign of Jupiter you'd have to see the relationships there. It's not weak in terms of brightness. Thank you

Unknown 19:36
I'll give you a simple rule. If you want to look at the basic structure of the chart is very simple. You need to have the inefficient planets in angles and trines and the Olympic planets in open China houses which is three sets of evidence. And then they made a piece of a dusty jacket to get all of them and particularly Be careful with particularly other planets in six 812 Particularly the moon

Unknown 20:07
a follow up question about God Danda a relation to that. What is it so what does it generally mean when a planet is in God? Donta and like what would you say is the largest difference between being in like the water gone down into the water sign versus the fire sign God data and how it like affects

Unknown 20:21
going down to is the last 30 To the last three degrees and 20 minutes of a water sign and the first three degrees and 20 minutes and the fire sign for the moon. And it's particularly difficult difficult if the moon is in six, eight or 12 houses then becomes more of a banner register. Now, as I said that these factors are not as critical because childbirth is different today than it was in the past. But at the same time it can cause some psychological emotional issues. Or some difficulties and particularly at the dashes of the moon or the planets involved. We always have to update our charts for example. We did a lot of charts in Europe a few years ago. And a lot of the women who had charts that said they would have children then because they're moving away from that. We had to change the influences involved. A chart that's good for a king may not win the democratic election. The senior George Bush had a great chart for being a thing. He wasn't able to quite you know, so we have to adjust it and we have to learn, you know who came to media the things going on. So we shouldn't judge the chart based upon something, a rule that comes from 1000 years ago. We need to adjust that over time. So we're not so much worried about the gun Danta as we were in the past, but I have to say an unfortunate thing has come out in India is that they're giving cesarean births that are tied and they are what they consider to be a a good word to read. We don't like to think you should be doing now. Is okay

Unknown 22:19
all right. Hi. Oh, sorry. I'm wondering if you can speak about that Purva and Tara and how those like energies for instance, Bhadra is like auspicious one. So Purva is early and new Tara is later but just the energetic connection between those two. Yeah, well, if

Unknown 22:38
you see that the the pullover Bhadra is more or I should say the the ultra Bhadra is in the depths. It's more internal foundational. And the poor have a Bugesera is more solar. It's more hours in space it is manifesting. That is the basic difference. Ah in terms of the but the two often go together these are like the, you might say the heavenly serpent and the oceanic serpent, but places of potential and of the two generally otters are more favorable in terms of muhurta actions then poor of us, but here both of them have their intuitive abilities

Unknown 23:36
Hello. I have a question especially about Virgo the hosta. I have my Venus at the beginning of Virgo so debilitated but it's an Butera Falguni and Venus is debilitation point is at 27 in Chitra, so, but I still feel like I have that debilitation. Can you speak a little bit about Venus in Virgo and the different nakshatras? Okay,

Unknown 24:06
yes, well, we it's interesting

Transcribed by https://otter.ai