Unknown 0:01
power as we say is on many levels. They represent everything that is twofold. So they are shamans are said to be the two eyes the two years, the two nostrils the two hands, the two feet prana and apana day and night. So they represent the principle of balance. They represent the principle of integration overall. And the ash twins do exist in Greco Roman art recall the Dioscorides among the Romans Castor and Pollux, which became the basis of the sign Gemini. We went to Rome a few years ago doing a program and the medical the old Roman gods of medicine were Castor and follows the irishman's so that's symbolism is also there. And they were not simply the healers, the healers of body in mind, but they also miracle workers, they saved you. If you were caught in a shipwreck. They helped you cross the sea. They gave artificial limbs to people who had lost the legs. They had all these magic powers. And they also had all the higher videos, higher ways of knowledge as we have mentioned, so they're also archetypal deities, you might say relative to the Jyotish or Vedic Astrology. And the ash winds ash when he was often put, you know, in the forefront relative to that. And the other interesting thing about the ash winds overall they are under the key to influence and Ketu was also the head that is cut off. And they do very strongly represented k two influence because k two is the governor of mugshot Jyotish IO VEDA Vedanta and all these other related teachings. So those under this influence it's also you see, like areas that can be connected to the head, the mind, the psychology, the beginning, the fire, energy, perception, the eyes, intuition, overall and electrical energy, pranic energy, even Kundalini energy. So we also find a lot of healers, psychologist, doctors, scientist research people connected to the ashwiny on nakshatra. And it marks the beginning of the what we call the Reva T paksha. I am I'm sure Reva to being the end of the previous sign, previous nakshatra so that is why we have that Reva T puncture starting with zero areas for marking the Zodiac overall. So a lot of miracles and connections are associated with the ash winds and the ability to connect with the ratio is is also there relative to the Auschwitz so any of you born under ashwiny Netshelter. Very good. So, this is your home.

Unknown 3:31
You are a horse but it's the mystical horse horse also symbolizes time. Kala is time. So all these powers come out, and you have to understand that when they say, horses, the sun, in fact, Upanishads begin with the horse image and also the horse is sun is Prana.

Unknown 3:55
So they say the movements of the outer Sun are measured by the inner sun.

Unknown 4:00
You have 10,800 breaths by day and by night, only 1600 and these things are all that can be connected to mortars, two days one breath every four seconds approximately. So we have our inner sun, and our inner zodiac and our inner horse overall, and all the connections involved with that. So since of course our time is limited, we're going to move on, we could spend a lot of time with the ashwiny in at the end of the program, we will have time for you to ask questions about these nakshatras and your nakshatra. And what they mean nakshatras of course are mainly that of the moon. We can also look at other planets relative to nakshatra positions even the ascendant if our timing is good enough, but the moon is the main factor here. Now how many of you are have done any rituals in fact it's a ritual going on tomorrow night a puja right? To whenever any ritual in India started they ask you what is your root chakra.

Unknown 5:09
So you need to know that nakshatras for that specific purpose and the nakshatra is connected to your sankalpa which is your motivation in the puja and also the birth nakshatra is connected to your motivation in life. And nakshatras also reflect the mantras basically the mantras of the Sanskrit alphabet. So there's certain sounds that go with each part of the nakshatra and we put that in another place and there are also various mantras from Vedas that go there are many, many ashwiny mantras because they're fairly common deities that way, because light and sound are one. So the Zodiac is not just a pattern of light. It's also a pattern of sound. And light is like thunder and lightning. And of course, Shiva Rudra. Indra, these thunder and lightning, and the mantra has come from the thunder have formed the light. Lightning is the electrical force throughout the universe. Lightning is the Shakti and then also the space. There is a perpetual lightning in space. So the more space you have, the more energy you have, the more Shakti you can have. So the light manifest through that lightning force. For example, Indra will talk about later the deity of lightning, but it's the cosmic lightning. So we begin with the very forward direct, assertive, transformative power of the harsh winds. And a lot of you know, Samadhi power, insight, etc. comes through their influence. Again, there are many, many other stories about them. And one of the Rishis they're close to is the rishi Varma Deva and there is the famous Rishi called Cuxhaven who is has most of you who's to the assurance in the regulator, and he's mentioned in a lot of the texts particularly for the atma Vidya.

Unknown 7:24
Next we move on to Barney Barney is said to be ruled by Yama. And here we have some interesting connections as well.

Unknown 7:38
Yama here is the same as yamas and niyamas. The yoga tradition is a power of self discipline, kind of an introversion of the Aries energy. Yama is sometimes pickling and later thought he becomes kind of the deity of death, or the deity of death and transformation. Even in the Vedic thought. He takes us He gives us the purification to take us beyond death or to transform us to a higher level of existence.

Unknown 8:14
In the kata Upanishad Yama is the teacher to Nachi cases. Of all the important rituals and knowledge and Yama is also connected to mono, who is the primordial human being or the primordial can from which all the other teachings or groups in fact, Shri Krishna, in the Gita says he taught the original yoga first Aviva swami who is the Sangha the detail we have many of those we will talk about, and then eventually also to Monroe, and then to each work who, who is the guru were the first of the story about the solar dynasty energy. So Yama has all those deeper yogic connections and energies. And he's also connected to Brihaspati who was actually later on also a deity relative to Jupiter.

Unknown 9:23
As again the power that guides us from death to immortality. Now Bharani as the next chakra is ruled under the planetary rulership of Venus, which seems out of place in the fiery sign, like Aries, but there's a power of devotion. And among the Myers the Venus was the word God. Like this is the word God in some civilizations, I'm not just talking about because, you know, Helen and the Iliad Draupadi in the Mahabharata, but this power of transformation, and rebirth. See the the in fact the Venus doesn't get far from the sons we have as the morning some evenings the Morning Star, the Evening Star, there's a whole set of studies and stories about Venus versus Jupiter. We'll talk about these later because Venus represents the stars closer to the Sun within the Earth's orbit, and Jupiter those outside the Earth's orbit and also the different Rishis the different ratios were named after that we had two groups of ratios briger So you know, who come from the family of Venus? Venus is also called Bhrigu kabhi shoot ocean these famous and many, many of the different lines of issues out there in the Vedic texts, burgers and grasses and grasses the Jupiter wishes to talk about it is their main guide and main influence going on. So there is some secret teachings relative to Yamas. Next chakra is in his capacity for self discipline, purification, transformation, introspection that not too many people know. Now we're going to have to move on a little more quickly now. Relative to Kritika. Even though the thing about critical is you could spend a whole day on critical and I'll try to go through the main points involved. A critical course is well known as the Pleiades and it is ruled by Agni, which is the Vedic sacred fire. And but Agni is the cosmic power to Dagny power of consciousness, Brahma Agni, transcendent reality, and Agni is the overriding deity as Lord spunda for Mars.

Unknown 12:04
And so this is where Lord Skanda is born. Now the lights they did on the this deep on the mountains in South India is for Lord's Kingdom. It was called Muruga and sold in the depot, the light the fire, for that agony is the basis of all the Rishis anger rosov issues that are coming out with acne and he's also very closely connected to the babies or the goddesses. Pleiades are also said to be the Seven Sisters. They said to reflect at a miniature form the seven stars of the Big Dipper, which also represent their husbands, as it were, and so they also have the Shakti power. And there's the whole this the mythology is amazing or the stories of amazing. The most famous puppet in the same famous Sanskrit drama by Kali Das is called kumara Samba, which is a birth of kumara Kumar has Agni or Skanda and they go through this whole story. So Skandhas, also called Kartikeya. Because he's born of the Pleiades, it's called SHODHANA. He has six heads, actually, there's six visible stars in the Pleiades and he also represents the fire energy of Lord Shiva. Ramana Maharshi was considered to be by going to a party that was to be an incarnation of Skanda or Muruga, or the fire form of Shiva, who has some connections also with the great teacher, form duction Morty now who is the mother of scum, dusk and domata is one of the nine forms of the Devi that's worshipped on the nether artery, which we've just had just ended a little while ago, the autumn equinox two door ago so Kritika is also Durga as nakshatra and also holds her energy. And sometimes people ask I will ask that question myself originally is that Moon is exalted in Taurus. But why is the moon not exalted in Rohini nakshatra which is closer to you know, Lakshmi star reuveni rather wise is it exalted in Pleiades? Because there's the the word God, she gives birth to scandal, but Skanda also has a feminine counterpart as well. So there's also all the feminine warrior goddesses too. That are connected to the criticals and some other nakshatras Chandu Kanyakumari Kumari is the feminine term that can you Kumari is the southernmost place in India and you know, this Agni is very interesting. In fact, the alphabet of the next shot was begins in the Kritika and Agni is also said to be a Bach or speech or pornography. And in the greater Vedic cosmology, there are only two things happening in Soma, Agni as the fire principal, some as the water the neck to principle. So, it's always said that the universe is ugly, so mcmicken Lord Shiva is agony, so much to come check out the universe made of ugly and soma which are also light and the Sun and Moon, Mars and Moon, different planets. So all those things. So, again, there's quite a bit with the criticals and the Pleiades have some similar correlations and many other cultures and the great importance over all discuss this a little bit more as we move on. So, next nakshatra is Rohini and Rohini.

Unknown 16:06
I should say as you can see Kritika moves from end of Aries into 10 degrees of Taurus 10 to 23. Taurus is Rohini. Rohan is more specifically connected to the star L Deborah or alpha Taurus red star that is said to be Lakshmi star or the youthful form of the goddess and we divide the Zodiac into between the two big red stars the red giants algebra on one side, and then Tara is on the other. We'll talk about antirust later. Algebra is Lakshmi and then Tara is on the other side and Scorpios are much more colleagues and there's a whole division of meaning and things going there. And so Rohini in terms of the deities property is essentially Brahma is essentially the creative energy overall, but we have to remember the feminine power behind Rohini and Rohini is a place of good fortune. And fact is this this eclipse

Unknown 17:20
has what was the Eclipse I think this eclipse actually occurred of course and critical.

Unknown 17:25
But we also have Rahu has been you know for some time in Rohini and now it has moved more back into the critical so it's a very important nakshatra and Rowhani belongs to the moon and a lot most likely the moon based nakshatras are connected to the moon Rohini Huster and Sravana and power that is very good and very creative and Rohini is also Krishna is a Chandra Krishna was born in the John Krishna Janmashtami he's born when the moon is in a row honey in the

Unknown 18:15
the whack the waning half of the most because like Krishna energy also. So all this kind of the human being as Krishna energy or just beauty bliss night, you know, Goddess energy. So it's all connected to that as well.

Unknown 18:35
Then we move on to more could be said about that. We'll discuss it a little bit a little bit more later because there's a lot of stories with that. Rigor Shara and Ardra which relate to the end of tars or maegashira and Ardra which is the 640 and 20 degrees of Gemini. And these, mark what is called Orion in the western mythology study and they are Shiva has a Shiva has two forms, he has his soft, is blissful, or will be say is Soma form Soma as the nectar of immortality again but also Soma has the Sahasrara the moon the head and Rudra as his fierce form. Okay Rudra Bhairava and brigus Shara more as his light form and

Unknown 19:44
Rudra Ardra as a sound form in fact on Rudra is own Rudra is the cosmic sound also connected to our drum. A lot of secrets with these nakshatras and so we'll spend go back to Riga share that also the point between the two marks the point opposite the galactic center, and that you're looking away out into the universe as a whole. That is regard more as the Shiva or the father energy. The point looking into the galactic center is more the Devi the Kali, the mother energy. And basically, you know, it's for example in the Greek thought, Orion is the hunter who was slain right.

Unknown 20:36
And here, the hunter part is Ardra Rudra. The animal that is slaying the deity that is slain, the sacrificial deity form is maegashira MegaShare I used to be called the Rohita. So Rabine was the feminine do what we thought was the masculine do Rohit has also the son project but he is also the creative energy but that has to be sacrificed or offered up or transformed, so shocked by the arrow, but it's also the CSR and third eye and then the soma flows. Now in the US in the astronomy, the three stars and the Belt of Orion or the arrow, they call it in Wicca the arrow and the Orion Nebula below is the also where the soma is flowing. Although the you know the Zodiac is actually a little bit elliptical bounds is a little bit higher up in the sky, but you know by the drawing line we can discuss that a little bit later. So the two aspects are there even Parvati is as a boat and the goddess Diana two I think she was a Parvati form.

Unknown 21:55
So this story has come in many forms and in the Egyptian tradition Orion also is connected to depth and in more Tality so these symbols go very deep. And it's not just you know Shiva energy is there but also Marika shares and also can be connected to the saucer or the crown chakra which is also the place of Soma and the goddess form of Soma is Tripura sundry. She is one of the Dasha mahavidya. And so that connection is also there. And they're also again fierce forms that Devi Chandi Rudra is fierce form of Shiva and of the healing energies in Vedic thought. They're not just the two OSH twins. They are Rudra Salma so my gifts, the healing rejuvenation, immortality, purification transformation that way, whereas the Rudra gives the fever, removing toxins and purification. The Vedic mantra for Ardra is the Mattoon Jai mantra. Try on the Jama Hey, now, the deity for the pipeline, I should say the planetary ruler for Umrigar Shara is said to be Mars, but that just represent the energy of search the energy of necessary to bring about that transformation. Whereas the deity we should say the planetary ruler for Ardra is Rocco.

Unknown 23:42
In fact Robbo Of course as a serpent, even Ketu, as you know, is a serpent and Shiva is the Lord of the serpents and how he has that and a number of other contexts that we will have to look into.

Unknown 23:59
And these are places of karmic rectification. We'll discuss that a little bit later when we have the balance between Rahu and Ketu. In 2020, the new Gotti and the New Year The astronomical New Year, the Chitra Shukla pratipada. Occur occurred with the Ketu in the galactic galactic center and Rahu at the opposite side of the galactic center, this is one thing we realized 2020 would cause some karmic problems. And of course, we had the

Unknown 24:40
I 11 occurred.

Unknown 24:42
Yeah, that was also the previous cycle of that, so very challenging. And so for example, Rahu and Gemini is also these kinds of pandemic type conditions. And of course, that will also occur as part of a kala sarpa yoga with all the planets between Rahu and Ketu. But the we judge the call the sarpa yoga is in reverse, because they move backwards. So if the planets are behind Rahu it's a Rahu predominant called the serpent which would it was at that particular particular time. So these energies are very important. And Shiva is also the deity related to time. And again, this represents also the higher cosmic energies one of the problems we have as human beings. It's hard for us to take the cosmic energy sometimes it makes us go a little crazy.

Unknown 25:46
That's why we have all these so called Kundalini, just this orders going on, and we have a lot of importance of these deities, then, overall. Now so if we look at this whole section, you have critical which is agony. Moving on to Riga, Shira, which is Soma, sometimes even Skanda has a connection with

Unknown 26:23
rigor, shear.

Unknown 26:25
And in the Vedic thought, it says that from the soma, two things are born one from the soma as heated by this party, from the flame that is produced the Venus is born. Regulus born and from the calls her husband or Jupiter is born. I know a lot of star systems are being born in the Pleiades and then also in Orion's Belt, Orion or the Orion Nebula. Orion Nebula is the brightest nebula lie in the sky and it has something that looks like a horse's head.

Unknown 27:10
And so it's a lot of these are reflected in the their understanding of the sky and meditating upon the sky. And deities David has also sky gods, or the divided as to solar deities or Spacebase. These Shiva is more of a space based Hadees Vishnu was more of a solar based deity so and if you look at the winter sky, that's where you also have the brightest stars.

Unknown 27:42
First magnitude stars, whether it's the Turin, Orion, whether it's a Rohini whether it's serious, serious and Procion. We'll talk about a little bit later connected to Shiva also kind of as she was dogs, so she was I arrow or connected to the story. And part of the story is that Shiva is you know, bringing about that transformation. So, this idea of maegashira is kind of also like finishes had cut off like it's because the the sauce raw opens, you will lose your mind in the sense that you go beyond the mind to the pure consciousness beyond the mind, so you can see this a very deep cosmic symbolism that they have had there in the summer in the winter sky, though the Milky Way is dimmer. The image of the Milky Way is much brighter in the summer sky because it's closer to the galactic center rather than looking out. And part of this work that I'm doing. I've been an amateur astronomer, ever since I taught myself the stars when I was nine years old. So we've tracked the Zodiac and also looked at all these deep sky objects relative to them. So we can also draw certain correlations to certain parts of the zodiac. And actually, the Zodiac line actually goes above. You know, it crosses just slightly in the upper part of Taurus, and then it's in it goes through Gemini above Orion. But there is one star that's connected that's regarded as both in Gemini and Taurus it marks the 10th the upper left horn of the boom is at work, and that's called the Brahma Vidya from the heart of Brahman, and that's also his more specific wave aligned to the point

Unknown 29:45
opposite or the in the anti galactic center point. And so there's a whole understanding of the zodiac and the nakshatras and even to some extent the rashes.

Unknown 29:59
Gemini is not twins in the Vedic system. It's a couple man and wife, a male and female. Some of these are very, very important points. There are other factors that we can discuss relative to the connections and the potentials that are there. And I also want to say that this knowledge is also because it's Vedic based. It's largely pre Parashar hora, shastra and even we're Raha Mahira. And his brother Giada. Now I should say is breakouts read Samhita which is the main source that they use for the knowledge of the nakshatras doesn't give you all this information, because he's staying with some of the symbolism of that particular time. So we've said that, you know, Rudra Sama, these are the deities you will see, but the connection with Shiva is something that you have to understand because this is part of the deeper Vedic meaning. So I've tried to put these different factors together. And they're also then connections to the timing. I've also told you about these connections, like Krishna is birth and all of that there are other giant is or a birth dates or manifestation, dates of different deities, different Goddesses, different avatars, we will mention a few of those. So all these are kind of linked together. And now of course, we have a situation in which the summer solstice, Moon, I mean when the moon is in the point of the you'll see that you will be the moon will be highest in the sky. When it's in Riga, Shira and Gemini, and maegashira and Ardra.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai