Unknown 0:02
I have a question especially about Virgo the pasta. I have my Venus at the beginning of Virgo so debilitated but it's in Butera. Falguni and Venus is debilitation point is at 27 in Chitra, so, but I still feel like I have that debilitation. Can you speak a little bit about Venus and Virgo and the different nakshatras? Yes,

Unknown 0:31
well, we it's interesting. Venus and Mercury are very interesting because they're always close together. So often people have one debilitated and one exalted in the chart. Now in your case, Venus first of all, Venus in Virgo as we say, it causes people to work more for the Venus energy, but it's not necessarily bad. We see a lot of people with artistic nature, yoga, etc, having Venus in Virgo, but they don't have the they don't often get that support from the outside or that they have to do things for themselves. Now otira Falguni is already more of a service oriented, protective oriented tech shutter so they're more inclined to be more independent or more active that way. Relative to the other issues, we always have to be concerned about Venus in Virgo certain health related issues. But for that we have to see the related houses in science involved, their issues, potential issues. The reproductive system. And sometimes we tend to have issues with the digestive system if there are certain afflictions involved with for example, where's mercury in the chart?

Unknown 1:57
It's right in the middle of pasta with a few others so the mercury is

Unknown 2:01
also there in Virgo. Yeah, okay. So the mercury is not only there, it's near its maximum point of eggs elevation. Well in that case, and what's houses first, and the first thing you have a council stability. So, for Venus, Mercury is rising in Virgo and Venus is also in Virgo, right? Then the deposit is canceled, because it's canceled two ways. One, it's within exalted mercury and two, it's in an angle. So that shouldn't cause that may cause you certain overwork at certain times. But it's nothing that you can overcome by itself in this there's other lot of other afflictions around cancellation of debility in some ways can be better than exaltation. You know that Einstein, I think, at least three debilitated planets including mercury. He had Mercury and Venus in the 10th house in Pisces. I don't remember the exact nakshatras but if you see his work, a couple of things one, he didn't do well in school. Second, he had a very intuitive discovery. And I hate to I hate to go against but any Einstein fans here, but after his one made discovery when he was young he never made another one. Was became famous also as a personality. So don't be don't be afraid of the debilitated planet by itself. I've seen a lot of debilitated moons in Scorpio, and psychologist I don't want I'm not going to cast aspersions on psychologists for that because what it means and I have been out and one of my friends had psychologist he had a debilitated moon in the 10th house. But what it meant was that she was also working with a lot of people with psychological problems as her career. So in some instances, the planet isn't referring to you, but to the affairs of that house or that activity that has for example afflictions to the moon and can also work out relative to the mother or afflictions to the sun relative to the Father. So we have to we have more things going on there. Depending upon the level of you know the level of approach.

Unknown 4:30
Dr. Frawley, I just want to say how humbled and grateful I am to be in your presence and to receive Darshan with you. The foundation of Vedic wisdom that you've built and shared with us with such authenticity. And integrity has always been an inspiration to me. So I love the focus on the moon and the moon, nakshatra and Jyotish. But one of my most enthusiastic areas of research is the nature of various positions of Rahu and Ketu in various nakshatra and the karmic implications and nature of that. I'm presenting on it tomorrow morning, and so, I would love to hear any thoughts or elaboration you have on the topic of Rahu and Ketu nakshatras Well, first

Unknown 5:22
of all Rahu and Ketu axis has been one of my main areas of research. Now you're talking about Rahu and Ketu in the chakras.

Unknown 5:32
What, how Rahu and Ketu roll

Unknown 5:37
around and take to what influence nakshatras Yeah, but it's interesting to note that Rahu and Ketu have opposite nakshatras to in terms of rulership. For example, you have the Rahu there in Ardra. And you have Nikkei two there and moolah. So you have some correlations there. And then also they be the nakshatra zoo by Rahu and Ketu reflect their energy quite a bit. Now, when Rahu and Ketu, move through different nakshatras and they're going to have, they're going to have that reflection of general opposites. Can be complete because again, 27 doesn't divide equally into a numbers. So when you're talking about you're just you're trying to figure out the How can I say Rahu and Ketu are impacting each nakshatra as they go around. Okay, well, that's a fairly simple thing to say in that k two always tends to negate to focus. Again, it has insight, research, critical nature but it also has a focus division. Actually Kato can also be connected division, but it lacks that breadth. Or Rahu is kind of the opposite. Rahu projects and expanse is very media based. But it doesn't always have the subsidy substance. It also creates a lot of illusions. And you can see in different ways. And it of course, is best and of course you can see for example Rahu rising and Ketu in the seventh house or vice versa. Now when you do it to nakshatras you also get to look at what's rising. What is the Ascendant is still a critical factor, for example. Ketu in the 12th house, and Rahu in the sixth house essentially okay Rahu in the 12th house and Ketu in the sixth house is not quite as good. Here's an interesting rule about Rahu if Rahu is in an angle or a Trine and if the ruler of Rahu is in the opposite of the angle between the other Raja Yoga. When we were doing the mundane charts recently in the last year, you know, everybody thought Trump was going to win. And then somebody showed me Biden's chart. And we didn't think but you know, Biden didn't seem to be doing very well. So I saw his chart it says this guy could win. Why? Because he had an exalted jupiter in the ninth house near its maximum degree. And he had Rahu in the 10th. That creates a Raggio plus the sun, which was the ruler of the 10th house is in the first house that's another angular position. So that Rahu based Raja Yoga brings something unusual. So in his case, the collective karma has raised him up, or the anti Trump factor raised him up, you might say, rather than just simply himself because prior to one of those months, April or some April, May March, whatever he was undergoing, Jupiter, Mars, and Mars is in the 12th house. And then but after that switch, now he's in the position where he's still running. Jupiter Rahu but Ketu is transiting the ascendant. So there are more complications there. So we do we do look at these factors involved by nakshatra alone. It's hard to make a decision because Allah the yoga has come up more relative to the sign rather than to the Aleksandra but still a well placed in a well placed nodes in the neck chakra. And particular the house the house is going on, you know, because again, Rahu in the 10th does fairly well, but it can also create some negative publicity along the way or Ketu in the 12 and then if you can see if it's reinforced by the nakshatra involved in the sign involved, that also helps you have any other specific questions about that?

Unknown 10:05
Well, I like how when you were discussing the Ketu nakshatras, the connection with the Leo through Maga to Jupiter. So with Rahu we have Ardra and set to be shock. And so do you think that because the dignity of the nodes is widely debated and argued so on some level do you think a node positioned in its own nakshatra might have some functionally auspicious dignity was

Unknown 10:32
the you have to always have to remember nodes are not independent. You have to see the relationship between the sign the rulers of the sign in which Rahu and Ketu are in. And of course they're different. For example, if they're in mutable, you know, then they're in Jupiter, Mercury. Signs are you have to see the nature of the signs involved and the relationship between the rulers. If the rulers The Rahu and Ketu are in a good relationship, then that also brings greater benefit through them. And I also told you about the rule that keto can boost things up. Now relative to Rahu you see Rahu is ruling Ardra. It handles are just a little more complicated than that but still Rahu has an important influence there. And then Rahu is also going to be ruling come and see my mind is starting to freeze Rahu is going to be ruling Swati airson cc Rahu is Air signs which is it's an area influence and then Rahu in shot the bishop. Now of these you know you will see that the Rahu is the Rahu can give healing energies. Okay? That's one of its upsides. It can give healing energies a higher prana pranic healing because Rahu and Ketu measure the subtle body and Sushma Shapira, they also can give some degree of psychic vulnerability, but if you can master them they give the subtle energies involved and also different states of consciousness. For example, they they take you out of the ordinary of physical mind particularly if connected to even some mourn with Rahu can cause some phobias and other problems move with Kato can also cause some negative tendencies because an emotional nature is a very contracting type of focus. Now if Rahu is in Ardra, where it rules, it's going to be more dramatic and what it delivers. But exactly what the drama is going to be. That's another factor and Rahu Ketu and Collistar have a lot at the habit the impact on the psychological astrology in the mundane astrology. That's why we have the you know the mundane inputs, but still they always remain an important axis in the chart to look at what is the focus. For example, if it's 612 then the issue will be their spirituality healings, that sort of thing. Now say for example Rahu is in the 10th house it causes Ketu. In the fourth house, the fourth house contracts the 10th House expense Ketu in the fifth the Fifth house is better for research and focus Rahu in the 11th you can get gains because because we Pachai how so you have to see how the so we often just look at the house by that Rahu Ketu axis. If Rahu is in the eighth which is difficult. Ketu is in the second that can also cause some contraction relative to livelihood that way.

Unknown 13:51
Thank you Good

Unknown 13:57
question. Now what next chakra is your chakra Okay, good. Now that your wisdom we're going to

Unknown 14:15
Rama Devi Ji, thank you so much for the time today. Very, very powerful interaction here. I find that as we understand the mythology of these different deities that helps us understand the nakshatras in a deeper way. And a lot of times the mythology almost helps predict what is happening here in this life. And in all the deities that are that I've studied. For some reason I can't find a lot of information I hear bloodmeal Yes, so if you could share a story, history thing,

Unknown 14:45
thanks. Not all these deities have a lot of literature. These two agile and and they're commonly invoked together. I can see a number of verses of them and they're said to be forms of the 11 rudrasis. Atmospheric electrical transformational forces. There's not so much by way of stories relative to them if you compare them to Ashwini as you say, Rigveda and Vedic texts are to certain David tests. I don't know of a single him or stone soup dedicated to these although they are usually part of a greater list. So we don't always have a complete view about them that way, but their connection with the Shiva atmosphere transformational energy is there. And we can see here that connected to the oceanic forests connected to the solar for us to have transformational power, but they don't have really stories that way. Only a few have stories mainly because the the mantras are more invoked. They're more invocation or slightly descriptive, but I'd need some samba has only has 250 hymns. Soma has 200 Indra has 250 maroons have a few and agile and they don't have a single one entitlement to their own. So we have to kind of understand the connections overall involved. And also the literature we have preserved isn't necessarily total. But we do have combinations and some of the later texts they say what what the desires of or what the Shakti is our these particular deities that we have. And you start working with that and also correlating them with the other information that we have. Thank you.

Unknown 16:51
Good evening, Dr. Probably. I have a question regarding Ketu in Quito Nakshatra, particularly in moola in first bother for Taurus ascendant and about a coming period of Ketu Okay, so Taurus is the ascendant. Yes. So cancer was in case it was in the house. Yes. Robin was in the second house. Yes, in previous year,

Unknown 17:19
of course. So the question is the Ketu period is coming up. Yes. Okay. But worth what is that we need to know about the rest of the chart. It's like, I'm building a house and I have a wall here. And I have what is the house going to look like?

Unknown 17:38
The the more information about your chart what you have the ascendant Taurus, Moon is in for Navassa.

Unknown 17:48
So the moon is going to be in cancer or Gemini. Gemini, okay. So the moon is in the second house. Yes. So that means the moon Venus will also means that the moon is with roll. Yes. Okay.

Unknown 18:02
And like Nash is in the middle. Okay, Venus isn't the

Unknown 18:10
man Okay, so you have the issue there. Now you're going to Ketu in the eighth is often good for research. And sometimes even good for scientific research, I mean, computer accounting type activity, but you have the Rahu on the moon in the second house, and the other the other afflictions to the moon Jupiter, Saturn, where

Unknown 18:40
Jupiter is in seventh house. Bannerghatta.

Unknown 18:44
Okay, so Jupiter is in the seventh and Kate was in this in this in the sign of Jupiter. Yes, in the eighth. Okay. Well, first of all, I mean by itself, you know, Ketu in the eighth with its Lord in the seventh because of has some benefit again for spirituality research astrology, because the eighth house is that house of secret knowledge. At the same time the these main negative transits are over because you had your key to return there not too long ago, you had Saturn and that hurt me. We had that in very unusual condition was Saturn and Ketu went red. Katie so rep. Saturn went retrograde with Ketu for months. That was not too far that was not too distant from that. So I think it might help you with the Jyotish in the astrology or we would have to look at the rest of the chart and see the details. And the moon is how far from the Sun

Unknown 19:47
sign in first house critical.

Unknown 19:50
Okay, see the sunrise important at sunrise? Okay, yes. So the moon Okay, the moon is not well, it's not terribly strong brightness.

Unknown 20:01
And it is atma karaka.

Unknown 20:04
Okay, but then the moon is it okay it's hi hi and degrees in. Gemini Ketu is a short period. Okay, two is seven years then you have 20 years of Venus

Unknown 20:19
but I have to survive.

Unknown 20:24
Sometimes we call t to the Terminator. But T two is to to has that perceptive ability. So when if someone's involved in astrology and medicine and scientific research shuts up, I have to tell you something about the eighth house. This has nothing to do with nakshatras. But eighth house is the realm of corporate finances. So a lot of people with eighth house strong eighth houses, particularly the sun can do very well in corporate finance. So it's also collected so that other people's money it's also collected money industries, and of course, there are some dangers in the that realm as well. So how is this happening? We have to understand the levels at which the houses are working at and again in terms of Ketu since Jupiter, the Lord is in the seventh house, but Jupiter in the seventh has other complications. I mean, it has some complications via marriage. And otherwise, if this is the seventh house is an interesting house because Planets in the seventh house are generally not so good for a relationship, but they're generally good for career. So the seventh house is the 10th from the 10th. So we also read the 10th house from the seventh house. For relationship we have to be careful with certain combinations in the seventh house, not just simply Pooja dosha versus other things son in the seventh house Saturn 7000 Several over now we know we have changed or changes going on into all these all these fields. And that means if you're coming into the field to you're just finishing off Mercury Thank you.

Unknown 22:16
So in this case that would signify good that make Rahu Ketu. You know more So

Unknown 22:31
Sue saying the sponsors of Rahu and Ketu are in one seven, right

Unknown 22:36
because Kaitos was positive as Jupiter was in seventh house and Rahu is in Gemini. Oh, we don't know. Okay, then Venus

Unknown 22:47
is in Gemini

Unknown 22:50
crazing 12.

Unknown 22:54
That's not the case you have to win any chart. You have to see the Dispositives of Rahu and Ketu. And again, because they're opposites, there'll be an either a Jupiter Mercury group, or they'll be in the Mars Venus group, or they'll be in a Saturn, Sun Moon and then you have to see the relationship that is going on there. Also, we say Rahu and Ketu are EDA and Pingala. EDA and Pingala Rahu is key kabengele key to us either. So if you can harmonize the two then you can have the unitary energy. But if you can harmonize the two then the energy remains disturbed.

Unknown 23:45
Okay, I think we're taking a couple of questions then we'll stop.

Unknown 23:51
Hi, there you talked about having left for example, Mercury. In Pisces that you would have to focus at a deeper level or connect at a deeper level. I think you also brought that up with the Salacia. What does that mean? Can you give an example of how to use that energy in in the best way?

Unknown 24:18
Well, it means that the mercury principle would work more at an imaginative or intuitive or artistic level than at a simple informational or mathematical level.

Unknown 24:29
So if you had Mercury in pisces, you should How would you? You should stay away from informational or like how would you work with that? But again, you have to look at the whole Okay, okay, it's

Unknown 24:50
number like we say Einstein had a Mercury in pisces, but we can, but he had some but his but because of Venus was exalted there was some cancellation of that Saturn, but it was also conjoined Saturn conjoined Saturn. So, the, we have to look at the chart as a whole to see the factors and see how all the factors are working and not lose not take one by itself. So we have to synthesize what the factors are involved. For example, fifth houses intelligence how is the fifth house dispose and the chart? fourth house is the emotional mind how was that disposed? Ninth houses, higher education, how was that disposed? So we have to put these pieces together. And the art of synthesis is the art of astrology. But you start up we have to understand what the pieces are. And then you can start putting them together and getting an overall view. The problem is we look at a chart and we see one factor that appears good or bad and then we try to make a judgement based on that alone. And that is not enough. And then there's the factor of timing, because we all have good and bad times regardless of that's why then we have things like transits and annual charts and we have ways of more specific timing than just the birth chart itself. So I think we have come to our time. Now that you're all astrologically astute. Just wanted to say thank you so much.

Unknown 26:48
He has his wife I have to share with you when he started the class and I usually kind of withdraw and move into my own and, you know, meditating, and I saw that his head was cut off. So I knew that you know, I mean, of course, it's a very deep experience for me and I share it with math. So I said you know when I am closing my eyes and meditating on him, you know is head has cut off. So, in all my experience of living with vomit ABG I have seen that he is the most truthful humble and beautiful. So I cannot tell you and I always say that this is my biggest blessing in this lifetime to be gifted as his partner and why, but he is truly the most amazing soul. I have hobnob with all the big boys as I call the big the big gurus the biggest colleges no but no one can touch whatever g is being truthful. Being simple and truly divine. So he's a very gentle

Unknown 28:18
as my head is cut off astrologically speaking I have come to just a few minutes retrograde with my son in the 12th house. So son is that good for mocktail portfolio? Technically, that may be the case on the other hand, again, Joe to Vidya is to take you beyond simply the informational mind to some kind of direct insight. That is what Kaitou represents. Often looking at lots of charts helps you do that. We have to be careful that any stereotype judgments and things can work at multiple levels.

Unknown 29:05
Varma Dave is going to be doing the keynote talk tonight. And as we mentioned the Nava gras Pooja will be in these rooms at seven to eight and then vomit Davao will give the keynote at 830 to 930. And then he'll also be teaching on Sunday at two to 430 as well so we get some photos of him and Shamov. He's also teaching on Saturday, so we're gonna get the Devi as well and so we get the data and the Devi. Okay.

Unknown 29:33
Just one last point again at our website at Veda net.com. We have something called the Knowledge Center and we have a whole collection of these articles on Jyotish that are not in published book form that are addressing these nakshatras and various issues that we've been discussing today. So I would encourage you can also download or copy them and you can have also more written information more so than just copying this outline that we have here. So please join us there. In fact, there are over 200 original articles there on different Vedic issues, not just Jyotish but also iron VEDA yoga, Vedanta, and related factors. That's our trying to share the knowledge now that, you know, we find that we publish a book and a few people read it. But if you put a good article out in a certain context, you will get 1000s of readers quickly. That's why we're doing it this books for the weekend. We have a couple we didn't bring them today. We'll maybe bring them to my just a few of the astrology books. I had a recent book called Yoga of consciousness. And but we didn't bring a lot and we haven't prepared for all of that and I have finished this next chapter book one of these times it's part number two. On my list, there are other things in it. But you can see it's the next chapter Astrology can be strengthened quite a bit, but it will support the rest of the astrology is not necessarily something different. And Dennis did this book on the NIC shot was years ago. I wrote the introduction or foreword to it I don't remember which it was. So that is also there.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai