Unknown 0:02
because we have gone through a lot.

Unknown 0:05
I know this is all job like and I just wanted to ask, sorry. If you could go deeper with not just the sun gods and all that. That's all sweet and magical. I want to know that you know who these people are what, what you're like when you're born or hosta or Swati? Yeah, that's what I want to know. These are all great things. I have to spend a lot of time to look up the myths but I want to know what was the deeper personality traits that you know go along with some of the secrets like yours

Unknown 0:42
or your loved ones? You have to understand that as human beings. This these represent our aspiration. These represent our inner qualities. These represent the places that we go. So we also manifest these particular traits. So hospital you also have manual skills and also, the vocal skills are there in fact originally Huster Hiranya Huster, the golden hub. So you see the creative powers, the creative inspiration, and also even the practices like the Gayatri Mantra. Now of course, the average person is going to have all these powers. You have to look at the potentials that they do have but you will find for example, we find many yoga teachers we find many healers under this type of nakshatra. Also, poetic influences is also there. In another context, we've had professions relative to their chakras, we know that time all those things in this and we also have connections in terms of place like I say, South India and Virgo but we also have other type of connections that way parts of the body, certain creative factors that come out. And so for the individual, your neck chakra is representing your aspiration, but it's also representing your potentials. We even find a number of actors and actresses with connections with these, this particular chapter.

Unknown 2:36
Thank you, can you speak to if the nakshatra is on the border? Like a 2320? That's is it hoster is Chitra. How do you end where does that border line come into play?

Unknown 2:51
Well, that is that is the question that's part of all the transitional points. And the thing you have to remember is that the Zodiac moves about one degree every four minutes. And also the transitional points. This is something I'll talk about a little bit later, maybe tonight, transitional points, like say in the bombshell. These are even shorter. So timing is the difficult thing to know exactly where something is. For example, if it's a birth time, that if you're off by one minute, you're off by more than no more than one minute of the of the sky. So transitional issues are also there. There is also some blending of some of the meanings of the different nakshatras involved like or even hear some of the connections via the signs involved. But again, we always have to use some degree of intuition, and it's never black and white. See, it's always a flow. nature tends to have these particular flows. I'll also talk about that a little bit. Tonight nature is not mathematically perfect. Show me a mathematically perfectly symmetrical tree. Show me a mathematically perfectly symmetrical mountain. So here you then have to understand and then the other thing you have to understand is the person see you have a certain karma you're seeing through the astrology, but there's also a person there, a parotia there that is not totally definable relative to the karma. For example, some of the texts say that if a person has born with this combination if they're in the royal family, they can become a king, but they're an ordinary family, they might become the head of a village or the head of a particular community. And so we look into that we look at it that way. And you also have to understand too, that all of these are parts of ourselves. We may manifest a certain portion of them, but these are all part of who we are, and what our potential is, and they also change a bit over time, as I said, you know, certain nakshatras today, maybe even we say for someone like well, I won't go into that when that's coming up next, but even for, as we said, for things like media, you know, a Virgo has a certain place, or even more specifically Cordova Falguni, or even more in this case, Bagua. Subito is also called bugga Sabita. So there's a connection on that side. So we have to learn to see and move and play with the symbolism involved taking other levels of meaning, and also to adjust it relative to the factors involved, but everyone is going to be affected the other issue that is a little complex is that what phase of the moon is at is functioning during a particular birth. So the qualities that come out during the full moon are going to be a little stronger or more pronounced. Than the qualities that come out and other phases was waxing or waning, or new. There's a certain introversion, there's a certain extraversion going on. You might address that at another time. And it's another question

Unknown 6:34
Dr. David Frawley, I first want to offer my respects to you and your wife Shambhavi. You're really like a father to many of us and the pillar and the Jyotish community. And I want to bow to in reverence honestly to your work for Bharat. So first with that, and thank you for helping us stay focused on what's important as well. My question is very simple if you have the answer. I was wondering if you had the Lagna for Ghana, but the moon Mooney.

Unknown 7:14
We do have his chart, and I will if you get in touch with us by email, I can pass on that more specific information for you. And Ramona, we have charts, there's a quite a few charts that way that we can see. But is there anybody who had their nakshatra as well, I thought you've asked I come from this nutshell, how many? How many of you have we talked about your nakshatra? Okay, that's a lot of you. Okay. You have any questions about your nakshatra as yours is?

Unknown 7:57
maegashira maegashira okay.

Unknown 8:03
Now what kind of now since we've given you a different view of Marika shara, what does that does that what does that tell you about yourself? And what does that how does that help you understand your potential?

Unknown 8:22
You don't have to answer

Unknown 8:24
without what you recommended. Test it out with the stars. I've got my mother here. I do that. I've listened 16 I've been a devotee of Lord Shiva. And I meditate open eyes on the moon for a very long time. And I don't know why I'm just driven to do that. So when you were speaking about it, it

Unknown 8:50
does these nakshatras also help you with your you should dictate what the divine force that you

Unknown 8:59
can worship. Yes, thank you. Thank you.

Unknown 9:03
We talked about Dennis and acylation a little bit a little bit already. He is relieved.

Unknown 9:14
Is there a text or multiple texts that you'd recommend for us to research the mantras that are associated with the nakshatra okay,

Unknown 9:23
this is a difficult subject because they mainly have souped us like Gayatri Mantra retun Jaya mantra. There's an Aditi mantra so those who are innovators themselves, then they're also referred for general leaders. There's many Shiva mantras. Rudra, mantras Bhuvaneshwari his mantra is scream, for example, which is same as the solar mantra. So they're also bija mantras. So there's different levels and named mantras, NAMA, Nama Shivaya. So there's a whole mantra fact I have I have a book called mantra yoga and primal sound, where I explained at least the beaches involved. And then again, there are also certain suitors and stotras to the different deities. And again, in some detail and also to the planets, there's a lot of Soria. A mantra is of course. That doesn't have to be a whole different subject. And relative to nakshatras themselves, they're also representing they're very important for psychology. Because particularly relative to the moon, but then we also have to consider waxing and waning houses located in or all these other other factors to really understand how is this particular nakshatra force being supported? Is it being inhibited? Is it expanding is a contracting is it turning in or is it turning out and you can also just go up at night and meditate on the stars that are connected to the planetary forces?

Unknown 11:28
For spiritual development, should we focus on like the energies of certain nakshatras where certain planets in our natal chart are so if we were to say mantras for the deities of the nakshatra, or the related you know, Vishnu or other deities, should we perhaps focus on our lunar nakshatra? Or maybe like a Ketu knock chakra? What would you recommend for our personal spiritual growth?

Unknown 11:51
Yes, that's a very good question. It's a very good research area. You see, there's a lot of considerations that need to go on there. But definitely the when we start looking at the other planets, and their location in terms of nakshatras that also becomes important particularly some of the slower moving planets like Saturn, Jupiter, even Rahu Ketu and nakshatras is very important for mundane astrology. And then of course, we also have to look at other factors that may come into play and charts for studying intervals. But yes, they give us the spirit or even say, the nakshatra where the Lord of the Fifth house is. Doing that or even work with the nakshatra where Ketu is located. In your chart, there's lots of tools you can pull out of it, or the opposite, the where Rahu is located where you can come under, illusion, confusion, all these different things. So there's a whole range of nakshatra Jyotish that we can move into it so far, it's been difficult because people don't really understand the nakshatra connections. Overall. There are quite a few things you can do in particular, but the Moon is always crucial because the moon is the mind motional nature. And then you can also nakshatra it's a typology, you know, just you have sun signs. You have nakshatra topologies, as well, which were reflecting a David energy. So it gives you another dimension. And we also see transits in terms of which shelters and things they are going over. There's a lot of timing factors that can be considered there as well. I think well, yes, go ahead.

Unknown 13:53
Mexican food for lunch. Yeah, I thought we were ready for lunch. One last question. dispositor rulers of nakshatras.

Unknown 14:03
Well, again, you have to understand as we said the planet ruling the nakshatra isn't always reflecting the inherent quality of the nakshatra against like this karmic control planet with some exceptions. I say Ketu you have to see the see how they the planet is also correlated to the sign in which it is in bold, but this positives of Nick shutter is that means it also means that if you have a lot of planets in Kaito Nakshatra, for example, that's going to push up the Ketu energy in certain ways and also in a different thirds of the zodiac. Ketu energy is is much more personal in Aries, Kaito and ashwiny. And then it has that solar influential force in Maga, but also then as it moves into moolah, then it has that kind of transformative collective force. So they also differ by quality of signs and different aspects of the Zodiac in which they are located. And transits to have their effect via nakshatra. It's not just that the effects of the of the sign in which they are crossing and if you have a lot of planets, you the that's also a factor of planetary strength. For example, if Moon is indicated indicato Nakshatra, the planets are in Kaito nakshatra. Otherwise that would also give strength to Ketu in the chart,

Unknown 15:51
last question, we have to go for lunch

Unknown 15:57
you were talking about going out into you know, perfectly a warm night and staring at the stars laying down the phrase you're up in the top or Monday as above so below. I was wondering if you can go a little bit deeper into what the human experience are just general our connection with the sky and how that really just impacts us as a whole and how we can get that deeper connection to the transits in the moment of heavens.

Unknown 16:31
Well, the stars are the they represent, of course the celestial cosmic influence, or we say Brahman, cosmic reality. And then the atma our individual selves, but the inner light you know, Artemis said to be the sun, but it's the inner sun. It's not just simply the outer sun and the subtle body, the chakras is part of the it's astral. So you also have the signs you also have certain planetary connections there. You also have Eden pinkblush Sun and Moon are these electrical influence, generally speaking, the SOS Ra is Soma. That's why the connection of the moon and the more than Daraa is agony. That is the whole there's a whole set of Yogi's and practices that go along with all that. But as we look at the sky, one thing I also just tell people, as an exercise for today, mind needs space. If we're looking at computer screens all day long, we become two dimensional beings. Everything's black and white. Everything's on one level, at least go out at night at a regular basis. And let your mind expand and give space for intuition. You are a cosmic being the body is your local manifestation. That is not who you are. So, so reclaim your cosmic reality through Jyotish. And one of the things we have to do from teaching people is Jyotish is a tool of gaining greater awareness. It's not just a tool of finding out facts and information in the outer world. We have a lot of ways to do that. A Jota should also raise the consciousness of the people and get them to understand certain things. For example, you see the church will often show them things about themselves they didn't know. Help them unfold. new potentials reclaim your cosmic reality. That is what we see in David as you are the avatar augments the Supreme. When we identify ourselves with the body too much than we lose our data to status are eventually in deep sleep they put us there. So remember that connection, and even the sun suns the night giving giving you light it's also to the intelligence and wisdom and all that we need. To deal with the agony again. And we'll continue in the afternoon also give you some more time for questions. But I do want to finish these and also have you understand your next presentation content.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai