Unknown 0:48
This let me know what I'm wrong. How do Shri guru Bill Namaha so we are on our journey through the David does our journey through the nakshatras our journey through the Zodiac ours desert our journey through time, space, karma, consciousness, journey through the different layers of our selves. Back he also had the idea of what is called nakshatra pollution, the inner being that's made of all atman it's made of all the chakras. It's also interesting to note that in the Vedic thought, you know, there's this idea of parotia Purusha is like the cosmic being, for that time, they say the cosmic human being, because it's kind of the everything in the universe is mirrored within us, Sun and Moon, right and left eye or sun as prominent Moon as mine. And but it's interesting to note that when the Vedas talk about purusha, or the being of like people who run Maya pollution, golden pollution and the pollution the sun Yes, I detail pollution, pollution, the moon, pollution, light, pollution waters of space, so they didn't limit consciousness to human beings. And they didn't limit it to embodied creatures on mind is embodied consciousness, which means that Sandra limitation, the practice of all the, these teachings in Vedic yogic Teachings is to move from mine, which is embodied consciousness to atman or purusha. Which is universal conscious like space. So consciousness is the supreme space. That is, Shubin doesn't require a body. You can see without eyes, you can hear without ears. You can breathe without lungs. In fact, the truth is, you aren't born you don't die. You don't see you don't hear you don't want this body does these things. Memory belongs to the mind. It doesn't belong to you. You have no memory. You don't need a memory because you are ever present. So that is part of the Shiva energy. And lastly, there is a very famous chant called the Rudra that comes from the yogic Veda and the root drum is the main chant to Shiva. Namaste Rudra Manjula, with attention to his arrow from the unconvinced taken back to the symbolism here. And you will find that very famous channels done in many ways and in different traditions but mainly south Indian what we call the Krishna Yajurveda tradition. We use we all set Okay. Okay. So let us continue with our journey. And here we come to a new chapter called Pune Russell 20 degrees Gemini to 320. Cancer. And this is a very also very interesting nakshatra it's taking us to a slightly different level. It is one of the main nakshatras of the goddess Shakti, the mother, it's deity or a day that is called a dt. And a dt is the Great Mother form of the goddess the sun gods are called RDTs the children of a deity and look shutters name is Punta Basu, which also means the return of light or return of the wealth. And she's also straddling the other side of the Milky Way there in the winter sky. As we move towards the further down the zodia and Aditi is the prime Mother Goddess of space. In fact, she has to be 18 months apart, she said to be the mother the Father the brother and sister what has been what will be all the time and space and later thought she also becomes identified with the earth. But the Vedic view of the Earth is a little bit different because the Earth is something as a deity is imagined or envisioned. From Modi say the Parliament of the Omen the Supreme Space, the highest level, and in the later thought she's connected to a whole set of deities Bhuvaneshwari she is the Lord She's the lady the queen of the universe. And a number of these very important forms Lolita, Roger roger Ishwari, even to some extent, three Porter singly, these blissful, transcendent and transformative aspect of the daily be energy. And strangely, for some Sriram is born into this nakshatra but Sriram is born under this nakshatra when the moon is in the first part of cancer, not in the last two. So you've moved from Rudra back to Devi. And the other thing you have to remember or recognize Vaastu shastra plus two is very important. The Devi that governs Vastu Shastra is proven. Her mantra is green, which is also the solar mantra, but it's also the mantra of Maya creation, infinite space, karma, so many things. So she then is creating that kind of transformative space in whatever direction they will be. Some very important for the Shakti sadhana and Shakti rises from space. If you want to create Shakti Chanda, they will tell you create space for great space energy comes. If you try to create energy, it will run away. And that true with all this cosmic electrical force or the manifestation of the space or the silence of consciousness, even if you silence your mind, energy will come. greatest discoveries are made when the mind is silent, and the mind is preoccupied disturbed and worried and all the rest of it. Not much occurs. So this is a very important and it also it has healing energy. And it also has the ability to with that space if we have to create a healing space. As you know, you can't just try to heal people in fact, if you don't have the healing space, in your whatever your treatment room or your school. If you don't maintain that, then the healing pranic can't be transmitted because the highest prana has nothing to do with the breath. Breath is a function of the lungs is promising manifestation of the stillness of consciousness and the punishments they talked about that they talked about as the prana parotia or the Shiva which is the immortal prana we touch on that too briefly in deep sleep every night that is why Deep Sleep has its transformative power. In fact, they also talk about deep sleep as the prominent as the inner sun. So deep sleep we move into samadhi the sun goes beyond the tank cycles time. Neither rises nor sets, because it's more beyond that. So that's also very important. nakshatra next after that comes Porsche and Porsche is the next one 320 to 1640 cancer, and it's also a special nakshatra it's the nakshatra where of course, JUPITER is exalted five degrees of cancer and it relates to the Deity Brihaspati which is a deity connected to the planet Jupiter. As we have said this is an IK chakra that's under the influence of Saturn as a karmic control planet because of the expansion of Jupiter countering that. So it's one of the most important nakshatras relative to wisdom, consciousness, Mantra, teaching rituals

Unknown 10:38
and of course it has its feminine connection as well. Saraswati energy is important here in Vedas, Brihaspati, and Saraswati, but you have to understand Brihaspati Brahma brahmanas, but these are all similar names. So Cyrus, what he also earlier on is also very all encompassing, transcendent deity. So so connected to the flow of higher knowledge and the flow of inspiration and relative to push this also you know, if you know the sign of cancer in the middle of there's another nebula that's also the push of the flowering in cancer. And one of the points I bring out and I'll bring out here and another other instances, the connection of Kenisha with various like chakras, and someone says, Well and I also in my work we always connect initiative Jupiter is the giver of wealth. He is the giver of knowledge is a giver of health, longevity. So we connect him connect Jupiter which connect him more to Ganesha and it's very interesting to note, the oldest mantra that's used for invoking Ganesha is a mantra to Brihaspati prominence. This mantra is used in starting all the teachings and Buddha's in the Vedic tradition. anonim tois trois kinda teen Malama Hey, Kevin Covina, Obama Sherpa stone, chase the Rajan, remenham, brahmanas NASTRAN, wanting to be seen for something that is used as a ganache mantra, prime Ganesh mantra, but it is also coming from the hymns of the hymns to prominence party also called prehospital. So we put a lot of emphasis on Kenisha relative to that who pie and Ganesha is also sometimes connected to cake because of the cut off head, and he does hold the deeper knowledge. But He also holds all the all the videos, all the videos, and there's also a strong connection between Ganesha and Saraswathi In fact, for the Diwali festival, Ganesha has his two. He has Lakshmi and Saraswati, as his consorts as we call city and booty. City is Lakshmi, the power to not we're not talking about well, the power to gain the fruit in success or fulfillment of actions and then body as the higher body the higher knowledge or awareness. So we see this not just simply as a kind of a ritualistic religious Nick chakra, that is holding the deeper knowledge overall. And even the sign of cancer, cabling and also to the soma or the crown chakra is also has its connection there as well. And even to Brahma as the creator to some degree, so there's a lot of powerful energies connected to push up. It's also one of the most favorable nakshatras or activity I've been going through that even though we haven't had the time to do that, but there are also certain actions under different nakshatras that go on. And connecting to that, you know, Brihaspati is also Adi Guru Brihaspati on the rasa is the guru of all the teachings which is that again, connected to Jupiter, relative to the cycle of time. And also by way of many of the Jupiter based lineages and essentially thinking about what I didn't say that I talked about earlier, but the you have the Venus space calendars you find in Babylonia, Mesopotamia, Egypt, and also extending even to Myers and I believe the Incas as well. And these were more Venus space cultures. And then you had the Jupiter calendars connected more to India and China 60 years cycles, although there was a knowledge of both the cycles crossing over and different in the so the rishi families were named after the planets as well. Bhrigu says Venus, angueira says as Jupiter cashapp as related to the sun, the other issues there as well. So again, all these things are connected. And then we move into the Salacia and the children. And this is another nakshatra where there's been a lot of perhaps misunderstanding or confusion and represents the last node chakra in this first third of the Zodiac that began with hush money and, and of course with the midpoint between Cancer and Leo. It's under the serpents he now Nagas and we have to understand who serpents are actually, as modern science knows, the universe is basically based upon and composed of two things. Space and holes in space, are channels in space. So the energy that's flowing through a channel is the sort of but we also call them video or lightning flows, the certain forms of Shiva are called also video. There's a level of revenue this is also shot with electrical forces also pranic force, mental force Tesla and didn't quite get there have the idea how to. So we're also teaching you how to access energy and space. access it for your consciousness we haven't

Unknown 17:38
quite figured out how to access it to run your car or run the electricity in your house tested thought you could do that because with the electricity directly from space, which you can, but it does require certain young cities it's not something that we're going to get to very quickly know a Salacia to Nagas are said oh do you know the difference between the Naga or the dragon and the serpent? They have teeth. Remember not too long ago we were at this Teotihuacan, Mexico City. And of course it has all the dragons around the bases of the pyramids because the pyramids were Texas and of course they have teeth so the more the dragon side, but the serpents are three times the weather to the earth, the space or the atmosphere and also the heavens or the sky. So some of the earthly serpents can drag people down, and the higher serpents and you'll notice all the Deities have their serpents Indra mane Shiva has his serpent. Vishnu has a non the world serpent on which he rest in the Prolia. We'll talk more about the serpent's later. So interesting things I'll add a little bit more here. So the Salacia then gives a lot of psychological knowledge and people who can work with psychological energy including occult forces and subtle energies like Vedic Astrology like Denis who is I believe is Salacia Moon and Jupiter. So the Brihaspati energy has also moved into a Salacia and you have to understand Ganesha is a serpent. Let me explain the trunk through his trunk he also is a Naga so they call them Naga also, Naga and Shiva is also Nagesh Juana, in order to sapiens are here party. So the question is being able to harness that serpent energy because that serpent energy is very powerful. And so it requires a special intelligence and you'll notice that these nakshatras that are ruled by Mercury is a planet are generally not a place for the ordinary material mind. You need to develop a deeper wisdom, perception, intuition, discernment, it's a yoga vehicle by Raja in order to benefit from these particular nakshatras In fact, we push it when rabbit T. Mercury's under its ability. So that higher aspect of the mind is necessary here. Then, the slides again another one of these places of transition many of you know we know the conductor point is these are the last three degrees and 20 minutes of the water signs. And the first three degrees and 20 minutes of the fire signs and there are difficult position for the moon at birth, particularly if the moon is in six eight or 12 houses because of the transitional nature of the energy involved. So there are also certain rituals are pious with these conductor points. And the one between a Salacia and Mageia is also fairly significant. And so it's important on that particular way and even the degree to last degree planets between Cancer and Leo. Again, it's transitional transformational difficult to handle, but not necessarily that so you'll notice under cancer, you have potent Avastin push and isolation. That also helps you understand which aspect of cancer energy you're working with. We can do this with all the signs but won't have time to do all of them in depth. Here you have a fairly clear view. So a lot of the more benefic flowery, creative, intuitive forces of cancer come up under Bucha. And under a Salacia are those kinds of deeper and background and perhaps even at times difficult energies. So we also use the nakshatras to find to the meaning of the Russians I don't separate them or make them unnecessarily antagonistic as some people do. And the other factor to the next chakra is of course nakshatras are more connected to the movement of time. So relative to doshas, whereas the spatial factors basic potentials are indicated more by the brushes. So now we move forward into the next section out of the Sodaq Maga and this is also very interesting nakshatra that has a number of levels of meaning. First of all, astronomically speaking. This is Regulus the heart of the lion, the star of the Sun is Maga by way of deities is connected to the ancestral energies Laura was talking about last night, but what people don't realize it mainly gives emphasis to the spiritual ancestors or the reaches and that they say there's two types that are these the ones that are purified and transformed through agony. So that ancestral energy is there kind of more in a spiritual way or even in a how should we say I will hate the series, the turmoil way, something like that. Because it's a more, you know, that kind of higher ancestral force that can take you and guide you. And it's not just male, it's also female, so it has a patriarchal and a matriarchal form. I'm not against the patriarchy or the matriarchy. I just think they have to be there. Together. Now, so the that's why the Patriots are the ancestors are the deities of the nakshatras of this nakshatra. But in the older texts, Indra is also there. Now Indra is called McGovern Maga is the quality of Indra. And Maga is related to a number of our terms like major majesty, Magi. For example, in the Magi were also fire priest on the South African tradition. So Astrium tradition also had a lot of the Jyotish a lot of that was lost over time. Or forgotten but still the influence were there in a number of nakshatras are mentioned in some of the Soto Astrium text. And of course, later on, there was a connection of the Persians back with India as well. And it's interesting to note, we'll talk about that later. A lot of the mysticism you found in Europe was terrestrial, with Indian connections, you know, whether it's, you know, the mithraic traditions and all of that or if you haven't, Mozart's Magic Flute, so I've asked her who the Queen of the Night I won't go into that. So Maga is this special power, special power, knowledge, even royal even kingly power. So I see a lot of connection even with a kind of Leo energy with Maga and also the Devi the goddess form. Who rides the lion is Gordo. In fact, some some of them look at Durga as Virgo and her lion is Leo, but actually Durga is more also carrying that Leo energy, and that's why Durga is also a deity that relates to the sun. She holds the solar energy is the solar farm of the goddess in terms of their energies and power. She is the queen. She holds all the weapons and fact the great kings get their sword from Durga. There's the story that Chatrapati Shivaji, you know the who started that Murata Empire, and to go to Durga to get his sword and Guru Gobind Singh. He went to the war that was a nine debut show maybe that's where he went to get Durga sorry. So she's supposed to guide and direct kings, or queens or whoever you are, in your ruling power for the rule of dharma, which is also the rule of the sun. And we also have the the wheel of the sun. In fact, even the swastika says representation of the wheel of the sun. It has both directional influences. It's even found in Native American traditions.

Unknown 27:31
So Maga and Maga, Bong connects is it to Indra. Now in golf, you'll have some resolve next shot is later in practice. This is where sometimes people make a mistake in studying the next chapter, David does they go to Quranic stories about Indra, Quranic Indian Vedic or not at all the same Indra is Shiva. Indra is Ishwara meaning the ruling power. Indra is said in punny shots, he enters the human being through the Sumanta. The fontanelle in the Yoni is the base of the at the base of the throat for the Katori mudra Indra is the CEO, the collusion, the drafter as the Yoga Sutras, also notes and he has to punish has also set his own car. His own as the light Shiva is own as the sound. So he has the lightning energy and also connects to the solar force. You also have for example, Indra Soria CDT forum in fact, Surya is also called Indra So, you can we can definitely look at not going to different lights. Again, we see a little more sign correlation. If we learn how to look at these things, and you have to understand that most of the bright stars are by the Milky Way. Whether it's the winter sky where you have all the stars of Orion, Sirius, and they'll Gabon or the summer Scott, we then have on tar is and you have all of this stars Aquila and Cygnus Vega, all about this magnitude stars. Regulus is one of the rare first magnitude stars. It's also one that stays fairly close to the so diabo, plane ecliptic and it's also of course, towards the beginning of

Unknown 29:47
so is the connection here with K 2k. Two? Yeah,

Unknown 29:52
well, here's the thing. This is a very interesting thing people don't know either. K two is the inner sub k two is the Knights sun. K two is the most k two can even eclipse the sun but it represents an inner light. And fact in Sanskrit k two means a flag but it also means perception. And k two represents also the first light of the dawn. In fact, a Schwinns represent the first light of the dawn and are connected to K 2k. Two also is connected to the eyes as a power of scene and Ketu empowers. In this sense, if a planet is in its own sign with Cato, it gets boosted up in a strong way. So say you have a new thing or take take a simple one if he was ascending Lord is in the ascendant with Ketu that really boosts you up overall. But if say the second Lord is in his own sign with Ketu then it's very good for finances. Okay to boost you up that way. But Katie was also going to internalizing influence and cater was light Kato was associated in fact Rahu and Ketu. You can connect him to not only to Mars, you can also connect it to Jupiter in the sun. Jupiter wisdom, Sun Power Rahu also Rahu you can connect with Saturn but you can also connect to Venus marriage and children happened commonly in Rahu

Transcribed by https://otter.ai