Unknown 0:00
The second recording service welcomes you to the first hybrid Sedona Vedic Astrology conference live from Sedona, Arizona and virtual via zoom, recorded November 18 to 22nd 2021 at the Poco Diablo resort. We joined Dr. David Crowley on Friday, November 19. For his intensive Vedic and yogic secrets of the nakshatras. Deities energetics, mantras, audio, video and presentation graphics are the property of the speaker as indicated by the copyright notice all materials are for personal use. Only reproduction and distribution to others without the speaker's express written consent is prohibited.

Unknown 0:42
So again, welcome this morning to this intensive with vomit, Deva Dr. David Frawley. We met back in 1991. I remember and will do and our friend connected us up and we decided in 91 to do a Vedic Astrology International Conference on Vedic Astrology for 1992. And vomity was really involved with helping me to organize that we had Dr. BD Rahman come from India to do the invocation. So this is actually 29 years of putting on these conferences. It's my Saturn Return. So I'm retiring after this. But anyway, this this morning, you're in for a real treat because Dr. Frawley is going to be talking about the nakshatras in depth and his knowledge and wisdom of deities associated with the nakshatras the Shaktis all the different little intricacies of the nakshatras he shares Bama Deva is also a prolific writer. I think you've written what over 20 Books 40 Okay, sorry. I wish some of rub off on me. So working on my trilogy for the last decade, anyway, but hanging out with him, you know, always helps inspire me. This has been over 10 years I think since you've been at one of the conferences, something like that. It's been a while. And on the day was not only great, Joe tishy, but he's also an ru Vedic expert. He's also amazing renaissance man in terms of holding the whole Vedic library in his brain. He carries the whole knowledge the whole list and he does a lot of political work and Indians throughout the world. So join me in welcoming Dr. David Frawley, vomit David.

Unknown 2:37
And to open things before Fama, David starts to speak is his wife yogini Sean Bobby Davey, she is going to do an invocation to Ganesha.

Unknown 3:07
Welcome this morning, and as my prayers always that move into your inner vision and allow the inner vision to move into the heart because the knowledge is in the mind. But when we convert the knowledge into wisdom, it's in the heart. So when we move into the heart, we also trust that if we are here, the universe is showering us with that protection and decrease.

Unknown 3:48
Oh Shri Ganesh.

Unknown 4:00
All big

Unknown 4:16
in

Unknown 4:29
the pool gym

Unknown 4:54
Mangala

Unknown 5:05
Shireen Gurney learning nama

Unknown 5:18
Shri Ganesha nama

Unknown 5:30
Srinagar nation

Unknown 5:57
Shri guru Namaha Thank you yogini somebody for the wonderful invocation. She's able to get the day that is to awaken and manifest within us is not a very easy task to do. And I also want to thank Dennis harness for opening the program here. Dennis and I have a long history. Going back three years so we've been involved with these factors. today. We have a very interesting program and something a little different and something that is not really present in the books although I want to tell you that we have a lot of these things on oops, that we have that way. Okay, let me go back. We didn't have that on there. Okay. We will give you that information later. But we have a lot of this information on our website. If for people who helped need more information relative to the topics we've raised at Veda net.com But we're going to give you some new information on the whole nakshatra teachings and tradition. This is our main Guru Ji Sadhguru Shivananda Mortain of South India Andhra Pradesh Vishakhapatnam, the beamlines that area and we were with him for many years he took his Maha Samadhi a few years ago. He was actually in Sedona with us probably more than 10 years ago, actually, probably 15 years ago, you know, so, Dennis, and he did some conferences in India, that many of us here came to many of the teachers came to and also mundane astrology, as well as the Vedic heritage and he was one of the most respected gurus in South India in recent times. So we always honored His grace and His presence. He was the head of something called shy about Maha gitam which is one of the South Indian Shaivite orders. And one of the things that you do is you wear a small Shivalinga around you that he has so concentrated so we have those, and we follow that tradition. It was also a great joy to shake can Raul was one of the people who admired him and follow him and also Gayatri Basu. The Dr. Robbins daughter, also the captives also very close to the Ramana ashram of Ramana Maharshi. So, we honored him, and I just wanted to give you a little background on where this teachings I'm giving you is coming from and this is also a very long story and essentially, around Should I take this Okay, okay. So essentially, for some reason, around, I have to say 50 years ago, I had been studying all this Vedic and yogic teachings, I says, oh, I should look at the Vedas in the original Sanskrit. wasn't very easy to do. Some of that on my own. I had to do quite a bit. I had a few connections. So I began looking at these ancient texts, particularly Rick data, which is the oldest of the Vedic text. And I did some research and study and writing on that. And I remember over a period of five years I that's all I did, back when I was in my 20s. And so I got to understand the Vedic teachings, the Vedic deities, Vedic gurus, by a lot of great modern teachers, starting with the Sri Aurobindo, and his tradition, and in the late 70s, I met with the teacher named MP Pandit who was the secretary of the Sri Aurobindo ashram, and very prolific writer. He was the mother's mother the Aurobindo ashram, he was her personal secretary. And he was also close to Sri Aurobindo, while he was alive. So I showed him my work on the Vedas, and I had no idea what it was worth. He says, This is wonderful. We'll start publishing this for you in India, and so they did probably five books and over 1000 pages that have over that, over a period of five years and more back in the late 70s and early 80s. And at that time, I was also in personal touch with Shreya Nanda my mom, the great, modern, modern India, and she was also encouraging me in that particular work. And the bottom line was that this was the Vedic deities that we were examining. And at that point, it wasn't so specific to the Jyotish it was just specific to study with the yoga and the deeper teachings involved. So in other words, I grew up with these guys. You know, a lot of us know all the you know the signs Surya or Jupiter or some of the Leo Virgo we know some of the stories and meanings involved. So they have a certain intimacy to us and we can think over them. But for the nakshatra deities you know, harsh winds, young agony. Project put together several these are quite unusual and different for us to understand. Also, in my work, I began with because I did understand the Jyotish even then to some degree, I began noting the judges references in the text. And the interesting thing about that is they were referring to Jyotish positions that were much older than they were supposed to. For example, even in the latest Vedic texts, the last page, they talked about the time when the vernal equinox was in critical and the summer solstice was in Malaga. And for those of us who know the Jyotish that would have been Taurus equinox and Lille for the solstice, but even earlier references are there not only towards critical but also towards reuveni Or even rigor sharers. So taking us back into Gemini so it's a very ongoing tradition. And the connection rooted in Devatas or deities, this is, of course, Shiva, Parvati and Ganesha and we'll talk about these relative to the nakshatras. Also, although they have many other ranges of meaning. Here, I just simply wanted to invoke their blessings. As most of you know, Ganesha is the main deity of the Vedic Astrology, and we do is that deity is a funny term. The Sanskrit term is data. It has a kind of different meaning. It's it holds divine energy, divine consciousness, cosmic awareness. So and it's also part of our own self manifestation, and part of the unitary being behind the universe. Now Ganesha is very interesting, because case with the gunner means a group. So the Lord of the gunners, and he the group has many things that move is the senses. The group is the VI, who's the group is also the nakshatras. The group is the letters of the alphabet. And Ganesha then is also the lord of Danita. He has mathematics. So all the mathematics the sciences, are his and he's also the Lord of all the letters. So Ganesha is Ankara, or as we said, only in its manifest form is Kenisha. Almond, it's unmanifest form is Shiva. That is why Kenisha is Shiva is Son and of course to be Shiva son, you can just be an ordinary person. So he ends up with the head of the elephant, which is symbolic of wisdom, steadiness, higher knowledge, and of course, he gets his head cut off and replaced with the elephant head. Going beyond the mind. We'll talk a little bit about that a little bit later, so Shawn will be invoked Initial Power is the Lord of Karma. He's on the Jyotish Patras in

Unknown 15:46
India, and besides this work I did on my website I put up recently, articles on Ganesha in Vedic Astrology, Vishnu in Vedic Astrology, Shiva in Vedic Astrology and Devi, where I give all their connections via planet signs, houses nakshatras and all of that. Now, before we go into the specifics of the nakshatras, I want to just go into the general media, the mugshot, this is mainly just to show you where you are, because let me ask you a question. How many of you here today know your that chakra? That is great, because we will be going through your nakshatra and so don't worry about the details. We'll discuss this I'll be discussing this in much more detail than what is there and we'll also have that available. On the website also, if people want to access that. Now nakshatra what does it mean? In the oldest Vedic texts, they basically say, the written Nutch means to worship. Yo E, br J nakshatra. So what happens is the this is the means of worship, but even worship is a bad term. It's a means of giving your attention or awareness to something. So these are the nakshatra these are the divine energies or the authentic energy is the energies of higher consciousness that are kind of keys or doorways for the individual. And as you know, the 27th nakshatras, cover the whole Zodiac of the 12 signs and what you need to understand is the sutras are the predate signs, and they are the oldest and the most scientific way to examine the zodiac. Why is this the case? Because you can one nakshatra for the moon every day. There is no way you can see the 12 signs in the sky. I'll go into the details of that later. I mean, you can see the divisions between the two. So essentially, the moon takes 27.3 days to go around the zodiac. It takes 29 and a half days between one new moon or one full moon and another because in the interim, the sun has gone forward. So it's not going back to the same place in the zodiac. It's going back a little bit further. And that's why in some systems, there's 28 nakshatras. We say it's like the inter calorie month you know, if you do 12 lunar months, it's only 354 days. So in the soul, the lunar calendars you have to add an entire calorie month every two three years to keep the connection of those going. So it's easy to see nakshatras night by night. Now of course the nakshatras then, of course during the day, you can see those but then eventually during the course of the year, you can identify the 27th nakshatras in the sky and then what they did in India, many countries, they developed the Soviet lunar calendar, one full moon to another or one new moon to another. And for that particular purpose, the nakshatras they're also use to measure that. So the other hand there's 12 full moons and 27 chakras, so only certain nakshatra is our name. For example, the month of Chaitra is named after Chitra nakshatra but the full moon may be in an adjacent nakshatra because of that degree type issue. So, this ongoing calendar has been going as continued since then, in India, which they call the punch UNGA, except in South India they use the Rashi months, but in north India most of the rest of the country they use the nakshatra based month. Last night, was the full moon of the month of Kartika where the where the full moon occurs in critical nakshatra we'll discuss that in some detail. Critical nakshatra is the Pleiades it has of course many meanings and different traditions and on the critical Poornima they light the fires on the mountains, particularly in South India, particularly a tear of anomala the Roman ashram that's below the mountain so they like the special identifiers on the mountain itself. And this is also important because in the work that I do, not only a Shivananda Morty, we have the lineage of the teachings from CompTIA CompTIA kind of put in who is the Chief disciple of Bhagwan Ramana Maharshi gave him the name Ramana took them help established his ashram. He was the most prolific and respected Sanskrit writer in modern India. And he also did work on Jyotish iron Veda and related teachings and a lot of these things we have also coming back to him does not reveal. He did a prolific work called almost 100 from 1000 verses in praise of OMA who is Parvati. Dorrigo, another name for Shiva has come coming to me and every of these 40 chapters each is in a different Sanskrit meter anywhere from eight to 23 syllables, and you have a certain cadence of of long and short syllables which is only possible in Sanskrit. So no one else had done that in modern times. Now, I'm only going to mention the relationship between nakshatras and science briefly historically, and basically it is this there is a crossover between the two and you'll actually find that you can understand the signs better through the neck chakra portion that is there, just as you can understand the signs better through the direct portion that is there. So in the history of ideas the nakshatras predate the Russians and in the history in general. It's also interesting note that the nakshatras along with a certain other ideas like the planets as the seventh ratio since I mean the the seven stars of the Big Dipper and and the seven rishis. And also, an ex shopper is also 28 mansions to the moon 27 you find in China. You had a little bit of that in the Middle East Babylonia, but not much of it. So the ancient remote remnants of that are there. Now where did the signs come into being? There are several levels one, if we go back to the 12 fold division based upon the full moons you can see a 12 fold division of the sky. Although that's not specific to 365 days, it's specific to 354 days. And then the beta is you have the most amazing set of calendars. You have an extra year of 324 days 12 times 27 or 351 13 times 27 or 378. That's 13 times 27. That's whatever it would take for them. Or you have the seven a year of 360 days. And people don't realize that it can it's actually the period between the winter solstice and the Summer Solstice can be less or more than the period between the summer solstice and the winter solstice because of the earth moving on its particular ecliptic. So the other origin of the signs that we examine and put emphasis on is Jupiter. Jupiter is the guru. Pen Jupiter is the planet that stays closest to the ecliptic zodiacal belt, and of course it goes around the sun in 12 year cycles. So India China also had the 60 year cycles based upon five sections of the 12 year Jupiter cycle that you can see, the problem with planets like Jupiter is they go retrograde three or four months every year. So marking the signs, but that is what they were able to do. So then you have the progression between studying the moon and getting the signs and the last phase of the signs is what I call the sundial because the sundial allows you to easily see you know what sign it is. The problem is it doesn't show you the sky. So when the sundial became prominent, then people stopped losing looking at the sky and they forgot the precession and didn't realize the differences involved. So what we're going to do, is we're going to go through each nakshatra at several levels, the deity being the most important thing now I do this because in the ancient Vedic text, the nakshatras were named after the deities first ashwiny was Ashwin. nakshatra critica was agli, etc. The other names came a little bit later.

Unknown 25:49
And the deities what are the key factors for understanding the nakshatras I say that because there's been so many classifications of nakshatras by varnas by for pre animal for marriage compatibility, for different counting methods for different classes, so many things that sometimes people forget how to simply read what the nakshatras are. Now, before I do that, I also want to clarify the difference between nakshatra and the nakshatras. If you go back to texts like Mahabharata, in which the Bhagavad Gita is part of the name, the days after and etc As Krishna leaves annotation today, and he comes back on r&d leader, um, just as an example. So that's how they they adjusted that tip. These are phases of the moon. And because the moon has an irregular movement, they can be more or less than 24 hours. In fact, nakshatras is a 13 degree 20 minute slice of the Zodiac, so the moon's irregular movements, so it's not going to go through there exactly the same time. So the modern pachanga puts emphasis on nakshatra and tittie and the 20 and the month, so for example, ROMs birthday is around provide me the nine t of the waxing moon of in the month of Chitra where it becomes helpful at that point. So and the modern punch younger they named the days more after the tip things. But even so, whether it's the modern or the ancient, they named the day after sunrise not after noon. So whenever you are looking at your software if somebody is born before sunrise in the Vedic system, they're technically the previous day, not the day that is involved. So let us begin here. And we'll go through them one by one. I just wanted to put this up so you know the degrees involved nakshatras There are nine nakshatra partners per Rashi. One nakshatra pada is three degrees and 20 minutes, so that means there's two and a quarter nakshatras per Rashi. And as we move through the Zodiac then they circulate in groups of three. And in this regard, nakshatra and Navamsa correspond at three degrees 20 minutes section of the sky is the same as one the bombshell. So each nakshatra has foreign assumptions. Which will then relate to specific signs. And then of course, we have the nakshatras have their ruling deities. We'll talk about these in a more secondary way. But one thing you have to understand, do not equate the rulers of the nakshatras as necessarily representing the nakshatra energy. some do and some don't. They are more karmic control planets, for example, push up, which is one of the most auspicious joopa terian nakshatras in cancer, the planetary ruler BMS. Chakras is Saturn. It's not as attorney in place, but others are ashwiny is a very rough is a very keto place. We'll discuss that. So we will bring that in to some degree. So we begin with ashwiny. And curiously, there's a lot of it has some of the largest the most, most stories and most connections of any nakshatra. So let's look into that. And also define each of them. ashwiny means the twin horsemen if you want to take it, literally, Oshawa is a horse, but Oshawa is also something that moves fast. Not sure what is prominent. Oshawa is also the son, son, remember has seven horses a horse is symbolic of the sun. And the horse is symbolic of the light energy of all. The ash winds are among the deities who are called readdress Rudra is Shiva and Shiva is the Lord of prana and energy vitality all of that. So they are also the sons of Rudra. Shiva. The ASHA twins are the among the deities. They are the doctors of the hour the healers of the gods they are much more than that. So first I want to tell you one of my this is really my favorite story of all the Vedic teachings. It's about the mushrooms. And in the story, in their earlier phase, the Russians had all the knowledge all the secret videos belong to them except for one, which was called the soma Vidya. We'll talk about that later, which is also the knowledge of immortality. So that belong to one Vedic Rishi named dajia, the son of a terrible, terrible VEDA came from him. So they came to him and they say, Please teach us this knowledge of immortality. We have all the other sequence we don't have that. And he says, Well, I can't do that. Because Indra, Indra, and here's Shiva, Indra is the Lord of the Devas is that if you teach this I will cut your head off. So you can do it. So they said, Well, no problem. We have all the other powers. So what we're going to do is we're going to give you the head of the horse. And when Indra comes and cuts your head off the horse's head, then we'll give you back your own head. So that is how they learned that they call it the muddle the idea. And this then, they they, they had that was cut off was put in the sky, and it became the Ashwini Nakshatra and it kind of marked the astrological knowledge. How however, and of course, it was connected to many other teachings. I'll bring that in, but it was more than that as the power of healing. Who the twins have. The twins are the original teacher among the original teachers of iron VEDA as well. So Joe, Tish and I are beta. And they also are the main some of the main teachers and punish shots the teachers that they don't have. Because the mother Vidya the taught by the Ashman so you can find in the bread aranyaka famous equation as giving the knowledge of immortality and they talk about how it's taught through the horse's head. So, basically, to understand the nakshatras you need to help a horse. Human heaven was not exactly work, but the magical horse and there's also a form of Vishnu, which is called Hi agrega, which has also had his head replaced by that of a horse and of course Kenisha has his head, replaced by that of an elephant these are mystical animals and mystical how powers so the ash winds then are very important. Now there are powers we say is on many levels, they represent everything that is twofold. So the ash winds are said to be the two eyes the two years, the two nostrils the two hands, the two feet prana and apana, day and night. So they represent the principle of balance. They represent the principle of integration overall. And the harsh winds do exist in Greek or Roman thought for call the Dioscorides among the Romans Castor and Pollux, which became the basis of the sign Gemini. We went to Rome a few years ago doing a program and the medical the old Roman gods of medicine were Castor and Pollux, the harsh winds, so that symbolism is also there. And they were not simply the healers, the healers of body in mind, but they also miracle workers they saved you if you were caught in a shipwreck, they hope to cross the sea. They gave artificial limbs to people who had lost their legs there all these magic powers. And they also had all the higher videos, higher ways of knowledge as we have mentioned, so they're also archetypal deities, you might say relative to the Jyotish or Vedic Astrology. And the Fishman's ashwiny was often put, you know, in the forefront relative to that and the other interesting thing about the ASHA twins overall they are under the Ketu influence and Ketu was also the head that is cut off and they do very strongly represented k two influence because k two was the governor of mugshot Jyotish, I have Vedanta, and all these other related

Transcribed by https://otter.ai