Unknown 0:00
The numbers are coming near the end of the zodiac. Now the last nakshatras as I was saying I sometimes have a little more trouble understanding these than some of the other in the Zodiac but they are have some very interesting connections. The Hub the you'll notice we have another pour of and water and pour that means before and water means later Bhadra and there's also a monk called Bhadrapada which is based upon the full moon in these nakshatras and Ganesh 234 ganache occurs in the month of October part of the fourth tip the of the waxing

Unknown 0:55
moon and after that full moon you have the what is called the shot, which is the

Unknown 1:04
ancestor who we honor the ancestors even though Maga is an acceptor has connections to the ancestors the actual period as those two weeks after the full moon and before ends with the other battery. So you have that whole hiatus. Now these two deities are also very unusual technically means ago but it also means what is unborn John? A cup of beans what has one foot or one line to it. It's sometimes viewed as a serpent but it's also viewed as a form of solar energy. And otira bedre are He is also the serpent Woodmere relates to the foundations of things. Sometimes they use their serpent forces that dwell in the depths that the atmosphere space or the sea. And these two usually form a couple of even in beta tests they are invoked together and they are again forms of rudrakshas or the electrical forces sometimes they're also called my roots or values. But the poor have a bedre has that solar kind of connection which is something we would almost feel unusual at the end in Aquarius energy, but it is a movement again towards universality and movement towards completion. The Ultra Bhadra we also have the figure of Anand, which is ambitious serpent which he dwells on during the cosmic prayer. So we have these electrical energies again at the foundation of the world I'm using electrical in a very metaphoric sense shut these we could say or inner powers Bhadra means that which is us fishes and they mark the end of Aquarius and as we move into Pisces Pisces, as you know is the second sign of Jupiter but in Pisces. The energy is very diffuse and Pisces ascendant it's often hard to get the energy concentrated or focused, although it can be fairly intuitive or fairly imaginative in its form. So there's deep seated psychic energies are there manifesting them is a greater issue for their fulfillment and for their power. They're very deep, intuitive powers are possible in the circumstances are so sometimes the people it's hard for them in my city to get above water and get into the manifest of forms. And then the Zodiac ends with Reva de Reva T means abundance. And derivative is also connected to the kind of the creative forces. And this is very interesting because it ends the Zodiac ends with push on who is also in a detail or some form of the sun god. And it's very interesting because this form is the guide of the paths also in the wheel, or you could even view Pisces as the end of the Zodiac or, you know the manu the mudsy Avatara and Busan gives a deeper intuitive intelligence and a deeper or inner power of seeing the most the shortest of the Punisher that's actually not the shortest I think it's the second shortest Isha as a very famous ending push on a car che, solitary senior crucial project but to have the creative energy who should have the fellowship view Ross gather in your race that they will come show me your most auspicious form your cell detail pollution some of us to that which is the being in the sun. So is with a supplementary Council AMI or that I am so inner power of seeing intuitive is there. No, we noticed that as again, Mercury doesn't do very well. And these watery signs and in some of these nakshatras as well. Mercury's actual place of exaltation is 16. So to place the debility is 16 are right between Otero Bandra and also Reva de at the same time, Reva tears ruled by Mercury as a planet. So here, Mercury has to have its more intuitive form in Pisces as a whole but particularly as we move into Reva T nakshatra. And essentially, here you have the culminations of the energies as we shift to move towards a another path. Push on has some connection to the machines as governing the connected to Russia, or the dawn energy and also represents the movement across the cosmic sea or the waters of samsara. So these are also deep intuitive, potentially transformational but often potentialized energies and they also need a lot of focus in order to bring them into play. So you see we have the 27 nakshatras. Again, we can start them at different places we started them ashwiny And it was one point of starting but there are others as we say like Willow, or elsewhere, because it's not totally fixed the energies are can be looked at in different ways, while the tip to the Milky Way. You have that moolah. And then Rekha share and I'll draw axis and then you also have nearby the just the Sagittarius and Gemini axis. And then the other interesting thing where they go back to is the place of Rahu and Ketu. Because they always create an axis because they're opposite each other. So they're very important axis in the chart, but they're a very important axis. karmically in the zodiac. We're hoping that when Ketu moves into Libra, we might have some relief. Although the in terms of mundane astrology Ketu is going to be shortly crossing the sun for Biden in Scorpio rising as the Lord of his 10th house. So he's having a lot of transit by way problems, other factors there. So we have this use of the nakshatras. And again, that doesn't nullify the signs. Okay. ashwiny doesn't nullify Aries. In fact, they have certain things in common or as we say, ashram and even energize certain aspects of the Aries energies or deepen them. And the nakshatras have the same issue as the science in the sense that different planets in different signs different planets in different nakshatras acceptors are more specific to the moon, but the others can also other planets and things can also be there and sun and moon and also be equipped to access all these things. So the next chapter is gives you another first of all to give you another typology of people who have the sun sign. In fact, in Indian Vedic Astrology, they sometimes when they talk about your sign, that means your moon sign. But the next chakra is even more specific than the moon sign. So it's actually a focusing on the definition of the means. So we should always think of the sign in which the Moon is located and again, how bright is the moon that will tell how much of that energy it can push away can hold depending upon what it is and then of course, the aspects to the moon and all these other factors related the relative to doshas Vimshottari is based upon the moon which is the main system us but Vimshottari is based upon Jupiter Saturn cycles

Unknown 10:48
16th or Jupiter's cycle twice. So, in fact, there's the whole In fact, there's a whole nother debate. I wouldn't do anything too complicated. But some Vedic astrologers use the 360 day Dasha here because that corresponds more to the actual days of the Sun of the Jupiter and Saturn cycles involved with us together applying points of attunement. So I wanted to leave some time for questions but first there are a few questions from this zoom that I want to address on the Zoom. And just remember, Ganesha is the deity behind all technology and can save you from your technological worries. So this is the question how does one receive the blessings and strengthen and chakra if you are not in India, and are not able to visit the temple dedicated to honoring that next shot?

Transcribed by https://otter.ai